# Part 8 of 10

ce. Scarcity also implies within it social proof. If you are 81% of capacity, then a decent amount of people made the decision to work with you. And the closer you get to your arbitrary fullness, the faster the spots will disappear, but only you get to draw where that line is quote full. Neat, right? Summary points. Employ one or multiple methods of scarcity in your business. You will drive a faster purchasing decision from your prospects and at higher prices. Just let them know your limits and let psychology do the rest. Now that we've covered some of my favorite scarcity tactics that you can use year round, what else do you do to increase demand without changing anything about your offer? Increase urgency. We will cover that next. Pro tip. Extreme scarcity. If you don't hate money, sell a very limited supply of one-on-one access. You can do that via any of the mediums described in the delivery cube. Direct message access, email access, phone access, voice memo access, Zoom access, etc. There are lots of ways you can do this, but I promise you this. If you want to immediately make a lot of money, create a very exclusive service level based on access to you that you cap at a tiny number, price it very high, then tell people. You will make more money than you thought possible. These also tend to be some of the best clients. and limit your delivery to something that you don't hate. For me, I hate emails and messages, but don't mind Zoom calls. Make it work for your working style. The cream of the crop, the 1% of the 1% will adjust and take action. Pro tip: Once you're out, you can never come back. You can create scarcity by also capping your service level and saying that if they leave, they can never return. This type of scarcity makes people think extra hard about leaving. I started doing this with my gyms early on. Then I was in a mastermind that employed this. Then I started using it in my highest level at Gym Lords. This works best with small groups like the above example. As groups become much bigger, the tactic loses some of its teeth. Speaking from experience. Chapter 12. Enhancing the offer. Urgency. Deadlines drive decisions. Scarcity is a function of quantity. Urgency is a function of time. This is where you only limit when people can sign up rather than how many. Having a defined deadline or cutoff for purchase or action to occur creates urgency. Frequently, scarcity and urgency are used together, but I will separate them out for you to illustrate the concepts. I'm going to show you four of my favorite ways of using urgency on a consistent basis ethically. One, rolling cohorts. Two, rolling seasonal urgency. and three, promotional or pricing urgency. Four, exploding opportunity. They will employ urgency in your business without being phony. My favorite way of doing this is having cohorts of clients start on a regular cadence. This has the added operational benefit of helping you create a choreographed onboarding experience for new clients. As you scale, this will become increasingly important. Number one, cohort-based rolling urgency. For example, if you start clients every week, even in unlimited amounts, you can say, "If you sign up today, I can get you in with our next group that kicks off on Monday. Otherwise, you'll have to wait until our next kickoff date." If you wanted to juice it up a little bit, you could say, "I actually had a client who signed up a few weeks ago drop out, so I have an opening for our next cohort that kicks off on Monday." If you're pretty sure you're going to do this sooner or later, might as well get on in it now so you can start reaping the benefits sooner rather than paying the same and waiting. Those two tweaks above have pushed so many sales over the edge by just reminding a potential customer that if they sign up, they will be starting on Monday, and if they do not, they will have to wait a week. It's small things like this that nudge people to take the action that they know they should already take anyways. Obviously, the less frequently you kick off new customers, the more powerful this is. For example, if you only start clients two times a year, people will be very inclined to sign up, especially as the date approaches. Even starting new clients every other week can confer this urgency nudge. What if I lose sales by turning business away? Just like guarantees, there's always a fear that you will make less money by employing the strategy. We are afraid that we will lose sales that we would otherwise have made. Every experienced marketer on the planet will tell you it is a fear and it is unfounded. The biggest sales on a week-long campaign or launch happen in the last 4 hours of the last day, up to 50 to 60%. That means that the last 3% of the time allotted creates 50 to 60% of the sales. That's completely illogical, but also unmistakably human. So, just like a guarantee, you will make more money from the many people who decided to take action than people who already missed out because in reality, those people were never going to buy. Heck, they didn't even buy when they had their feet to the fire. So, why would they buy now? Good to remember. What to do if you just started a cohort and someone wants to buy? You have two options. One, you can offer them a speedy personalized onboarding to get them up to speed as a bonus for signing up today and still get them in. Or my preference, you can explain to them that since the next group starts in a little, they will have the advantage of having more time to review the materials, talk to their employees for a B2B product, for example, or families for a BTOC product. On top of that, they can have a more extended payment plan that you can only make available to them since the start date is so far out, an advantage that most clients do not get. In the end, remember you always have the advantage because you are the one who calls the shots. Two, rolling seasonal urgency in a digital setting. Having actual signup date countdown is very useful, but make sure they are real. If they aren't, you'll lose credibility and just look like every other wannabe marketer. This is very common with internet businesses that use launch models. I personally love having the dates that I am running a promotion through on my landing pages and in my copy. I want it to be visible everywhere. The nice thing is that you can always fire up another ad campaign and a new landing page with new dates and be right as rain. You will see your conversions go up through the roof and it takes maybe 5 minutes of editing. Well worth the time investment. Example, our New Year promotion ends January 30th. Next month, our Valentine's Day lover promotion ends February 30th. Next month, our Sexy by Spring special ends March 31st. Next month, our Fools in Love April promo ends April 30th. The actual promotion may be the same, but naming it something different by season gives you the real differentiator that gives you a start and a finish. Deadlines drive decisions. By simply having these, you can point to them and let human beings push themselves over the edge so as not to miss out. Pro tip for local businesses. This is my number one strategy for local businesses. They must vary their marketing more frequently than national advertisers. Putting a new rapper with a date on the same core service gives you urgency and novelty that will consistently outperform the same old campaigns. Three, pricing or bonus-based urgency. This is another way of creating urgency using your actual offer or promotion/pricing structure as the thing they could miss out on. Kind of brilliant. It allows businesses that sell clients year round to still use urgency. For example, yes, let's get you started today so you can take advantage of the discount you came in for. I'm not sure how long we'll be running it as we change them every four weeks or so and this is one of the better ones we've run in a while. This creates some fear of missing out on the promotion or discount or bonuses rather than your actual service. It would be a lie to say that if you own a roofing business, you won't service them if they buy after the date. But if you talk specifically about the promotion, you can often elicit the same urgency on buying the prospect while maintaining your integrity. Win-win. You can interchange a pricing, promotion, discount, or added bonuses like free install or free onboarding or an extra workshop valued at $1,000 if they buy now. These are all things you can swap around your core offer to create urgency. Pro tip: clean your pipeline with every price change. If you ever really are planning on raising your prices, hopefully soon if you're reading this book right now, then you can always clean out your pipeline by letting people know the price is going up, so get in now. Never raise your prices without letting people know. It shows a position of strength and will give you a nice little influx of cash from the people in the pipeline who are on the fence. Four, exploding opportunity. On occasion, you will be exposing the prospect to an arbitrage opportunity. The opportunity itself has a ticking time clock, as all great opportunities do. Every second someone delays, they miss out on disproportionate gains. Example, if I were explaining an arbitrage opportunity between buying products on eBay and selling them on Amazon, this market efficiency would correct itself over time. The sooner someone acts, the better it will be for them. This could be true for selling someone on the opportunity of trading cryptocurrencies, buying a stock, getting into a new platform to advertise before competitors jump on the bandwagon, or anything else like that. Highly competitive job environments often get job offers that are exploding offers every day. They wait to take the job, their pay or bonuses decrease. This forces prospects to make fast decisions rather than try and wait it out to see if they get a better offer. All of these examples show opportunities that decay with time. So, if you find yourself in front of an opportunity like this, make sure to emphasize it. Summary points. Adding a deadline and incorporating one or multiple forms of urgency will get more people to take action than otherwise. I have employed all four of these methods with great effectiveness. I suggest you do the same. Next up, bonuses. Free gift number seven, bonus tutorial. How to ethically use scarcity and urgency. If you want to walk through some live ethical examples of scarcity and urgency with me, go to acquisition.com/training/offers and select scarcity and urgency to watch a short video tutorial. You'll also be able to grab my scarcity and urgency checklist that I use when creating offers. As always, it's absolutely free. Enjoy. Chapter 13, enhancing the offer bonuses. It's all gravy, baby. play on an old English saying. I have to give special thanks to Jason Flatland for my renewed appreciation for bonuses. They are so powerful that they earned an entire chapter. In this chapter, I'm going to cover what to offer, how to pick them, how to value them, how to present them, and how to price them. The main point I want you to take away from this is that a single offer is less valuable than the same offer broken into its component parts and stacked as bonuses, aka the entirety of the offer we came up with at the end of the last section. This section is about how to present those pieces in what order. For example, I may in fact do lots of things with my service, but until I enumerate them, they are unknown. This is why every infomercial of all time continues with, "But wait, there's more." They would not use these techniques unless they were effective, as every second of airtime costs money and must be justified with ROI. You'll also notice that if you watch those old infomercials, they would sell one knife for $38.95 and then include 37 other knives, sharpeners, pans, and guarantees to beat the prospect into submission. They establish the price and then they expand upon it until you feel like it's such a good deal, it would be stupid to pass it up. The reason this works is that we are increasing the prospect's price to value discrepancy by increasing the value delivered instead of cutting the price. We anchor the price we tell them to the core offer. Then with each increasingly valuable bonus, that discrepancy grows wider and wider until it's too big to bear. And we snap the rubber band in their mind that is holding their wallet in their pocket. We are now going to present that stack of deliverables that we assembled earlier in a way that makes them irresistible. Pro tip, add bonuses instead of discounting whenever possible on core offers. Whenever trying to close a deal, never discount the main offer. It teaches your customers that your prices are negotiable, which is terrible. Adding bonuses to increase value to close the deal is far superior to cutting prices. It puts you in a position of strength and goodwill rather than weakness. Presenting bonuses 101 versus group selling. There are key differences between pitching to a group versus a single person. Group selling is beyond the scope of this book, but I want to at least address when a bonus would be brought up in a one-on-one selling scenario. When selling oneonone, you ask for the sale first before offering the bonuses. If they say yes, then after they have signed up, you let them know the additional bonuses they're going to get. This creates a wow experience and reinforces their decision to buy. On the other hand, if the person does not buy after the first ask, then you present a bonus that matches their perceived obstacle, then ask again. Don't feel weird about asking again. You simply agree with the prospect, add the bonus, and then ask if this consolation was fair enough. People have a hard time rejecting reciprocity. So adding a bonus to accommodate then another then another and people feel almost obligated to buy from you. If you recall from our trim and stack chapter, each of those deliverables is now being weaponized and presented at the perfect time. We're going to provide all these bonuses to them anyways, but it increases the perception of our offer value by laying these bonuses one at a time. Bonus bullets. That being said, there are a few key things to remember when offering bonuses. One, always offer them. You can use the bulleted bundle we come up with at the end of section 3. Two, give them a special name that has a benefit in the title. Three, tell them A, how it relates to their issue. B, what it is. C, how you discovered it or what you had to do to create it. D, how it will specifically improve their lives or make their experience faster, easier, or less effort and sacrifice. Just looking at the value equation. Four, provide some proof. This can be a stat, a past client, or personal experience to prove that this thing is valuable. Five, paint a vivid mental image of what their life will be like, assuming they have already used it and are experiencing the benefits. Six, always ascribe a price tag to them and justify it. Seven, tools and checklists are better than additional trainings as the effort and time are lower with the former, so the value is higher. The value equation still reigns supreme. Eight, they should each address a specific concern or obstacle in the prospect's mind about why they can't or won't be successful. The bonus should prove their belief incorrect. Nine. This can also be what they would logically realize they would need next. You want to solve their next problem before they even encounter it. 10. The value of the bonuses should eclipse the value of the core offer. Psychologically, as you continue to add offers, it continues to expand the price to value discrepancy. It also subconsciously communicates that the core offer must be valuable because if these are the bonuses, the main thing has to be more valuable than the bonuses, right? No, but you can use the psychological bias to make your offer seem wildly compelling. 11. You can further enhance the value of your bonuses by adding scarcity and urgency to the bonuses themselves, which takes this technique and puts it on steroids. A bonuses with scarcity version one. Only people who sign up for my XYZ program will have access to my bonus one, two, three that are never for sale or available anywhere else other than through this program. Version two, I have three tickets left to my $5,000 virtual event. If you buy this program, you can get one of those last three tickets as a bonus. B, bonuses with urgency. Version one. If you buy today, I will add in XYZ bonus that normally cost $1,000 for free. And I'll do that because I want to reward action takers. C. With hope, you can see the subtle differences. The first two examples aren't constrained by time. They state that if you buy the program, you will get the things you normally would not be able to. The bonus with urgency is about them buying today. And if they do not buy today, they will lose the bonuses. Minor difference, but worth noting. Advanced level bonuses, other people's products and services. You can get other businesses to give you their services and products as a part of your bonuses in exchange for exposure to your clients for free. This is free marketing for them and high-v value products for you at no cost. Businesses will do this because you're going to give their business exposure for free to the highest quality prospects, your customers. As long as they are not direct competitors, you can get some brownie points, secure some future referral IUs, and make your offer more valuable at the same time. If you secure enough of these relationships, you can literally justify your entire price in the savings and additional true-to-pric bonuses. For example, if I owned a pain clinic, I might get a massage therapist to give me one to two free massages to incorporate into my offer. On top of that, I might get one, a chiropractor to give me two free adjustments, valued at $100. A low inflammation food company to give me discounts for their products, $50 savings. Discounts for braces and orthotics, $150 of savings. A local health club down the street to give me personal training session for free and a free month membership to their pool, $100 value. Discounts on all pharmaceutical drugs from the local pharmacist, $100 per month in savings. Repeat the above for multiple service providers. So perhaps I get 10 chiropractors to give me a free adjustment. Now I have 10 adjustments in my bundle, etc. Now, if my offer were $400, then the value of these free bonuses alone is worth more than the $400. As if that weren't already awesome enough, if you really want to be a Jedi, negotiate a group discount and a commission for yourself. This is exactly what we did with our supplement company. Our gym owner clients who use our sister company, Prestige Labs, sponsored athletes get 30% discount on all our products. And on top of that, the sponsored athlete gets 40% of all sales netted after the applied discount. So, it's a win-win for everyone. Their clients get it for 30% less than our main site. They get paid for giving away exclusive discounts, and we get customers in exchange for a commission paid. Everyone wins. If you're following along, each of these bonuses can become revenue streams for you indirectly by getting clients to say yes more easily and directly because you can negotiate that each of these businesses can pay you for the people you send their way. So, let's say we negotiated the following affiliate commission for making an introduction to these businesses. The chiropractor gives you $100 per person who comes into their office. The food company gives you free food. Orthotics company gives you $100 per person referred. The health club gives you a free membership or $50 per month who signs up. Pharmacy gives you $100 per person. Now, let's look at how much money we made. Our $400 offer now has the possibility to make us an extra $350 of pure profit. That's the beauty of these relationships. The other businesses will pay you and you don't have to do anything but refer customers to them that you already have spent the money to acquire. And if you really want to get crazy, come up with a grand slam offer with these partners' businesses by using the same concepts in this book so that each of the bonuses themselves become even more valuable than a simple commoditized service. Free gift number eight, bonus on bonuses. There are a million in one ways to use bonuses in your offers. You can get people to act faster. You can price anchor and product anchor little known. You can get more people to say yes than you otherwise would. And if you want a live deep dive with me, you can go to acquisition.com/training/offers and select bonus creation to watch a short video tutorial. I also have a free bonus checklist that I use when creating offers so you can swipe it and use it for your business on the house. Summary: We want to employ bonuses because they expand the price to value discrepancy and get people to purchase who otherwise wouldn't. They massively increase the prospect's perception of the value of our offer. So, here's what to do. One, create checklists, tools, swipe files, scripts, templates, and anything else that would take lots of time and effort to create on one's own, but is easy to use once created. Anything that you can invest in one time that clearly costs time or money to create, but can be given away endless time is a perfect fit for bonuses. Two, beyond that, make a habit to record every workshop, every webinar, every event, every interview, and use them as additional bonuses as needed to crush a perceived obstacle. Three, proactively negotiate group discounts and a referral commission with adjacent businesses that solve needs your customer will have as a result of beginning this process with you. What's the next natural thing they might want? Go to those businesses, get a deal for them they could never get for themselves because you were negotiating with the purchasing power of all your customers at once. Very powerful author note. The longer you are in business, the more of these bonus assets you will have at your disposal. All these things are valuable. Put them in a vault and keep them in your back pocket to sprinkle into an offer to get the deal closed. Information products work very well here because they have high perceived value, low cost, and zero operational effort besides an additional login. Tickets to virtual experience or events work too. Same goes for a higher level of service that has a fixed cost, like giving someone a VIP service for a month, which also, by the way, doubles as a way of upselling them into that level of service to keep them on it. More on that in book two. What should be a bonus versus part of the core offer if I am the one fulfilling it? Short answer, wow factor. In other words, something you wouldn't want someone to miss. Many times, you have so much cool stuff they will be providing your customers, which is a good thing, that valuable nuggets can get lost in the mix. You want to take the most distinct ones that can almost stand on their own and pull those out to highlight them. This is especially true for things that are short in length but high in quality or value. Checklists or infographics can condense a lot of information into a small space. Someone might not feel justified paying lots of money for a product launch map, for example, but as a bonus would be perceived as very valuable. Next up, we have our core offer. We are presenting it in a way to increase scarcity and urgency to increase the likelihood that they want it even more. We stack the bonuses of our offer to make the price to value discrepancy out of this world and break our prospects minds. Next on our magical journey, we'll be addressing the big elephant in the room, risk. We will completely obliterate it using a combination of guarantees so they have no reason not to buy. Chapter 14, enhancing the offer guarantees. You're going to like the way you look. I guarantee it. Men's warehouse ad that ran forever. Guarantees worth their weight in gold. The single greatest objection for any product or service being sold is, drum roll, risk. Risk that it doesn't do what it's supposed to do for them. Therefore, reversing risk is an immediate way to make any offer more attractive. You will want to spend a disproportionate amount of time figuring out how you want to reverse it. That being said, how much more attractive can a guarantee make an offer? Jason Flatland, who I referenced earlier, once stated that he had seen the conversion on an offer 2 to 4x simply by changing the quality of the guarantee. It's that important. From an overarching perspective, there are four types of guarantees: unconditional, conditional, anti-garanty, and implied guarantees. You must always hit your guarantee hard, even if you don't have one. Say it boldly and give the reason why. But won't people take advantage of a crazy guarantee? Sometimes, but not usually. That being said, you must understand the math. If you close 130% as many people and your refund percentage doubles from 5% to 10%. You've still made 1.23x 2 3x the money or 23% more. And that all goes to the