# Part 6 of 10

urrent grocery bill. Buying healthy food is unsustainable. How to make buying healthy food take less effort than buying unhealthy food. Buying healthy food is now my priority. My family's needs will get in the way. How to buy healthy food for you and your family at the same time. Buying healthy food is undoable if I travel. I won't know what to get. How to get healthy food when you are traveling. Problem. Cooking healthy food is hard, confusing. I won't like it and I will suck at it. Turns into how anyone can enjoy cooking healthy meals easily. Cooking healthy food will take too much time. How to cook meals in under 5 minutes. Cooking healthy food is expensive and it's not worth it. How eating healthy is actually cheaper than unhealthy food. Cooking healthy food is unsustainable. How to make eating healthy last forever. Cooking healthy food is not my priority. My family's needs will get in the way. How to cook healthy food despite your family's concerns. Cooking healthy food is undoable. If I travel, I won't know how to cook healthy. How to travel and still cook? Problem? Eating healthy food. It's hard, confusing, etc. How to eat delicious food without following complicated systems. Problem. Exercising regularly. it's hard, confusing, etc. Easy to follow exercise system that everyone enjoys. Okay, that was a lot of problems and a lot of intuitive solutions courtesy of divergent thinking. You'll also notice that a lot of them are repetitive and that's totally normal. The value drivers are the four core reasons. Our problems always relate to those drivers and our solutions provide the needed answer to give a prospect permission to purchase. What's even crazier is that if even only one of these needs is missing in a solution, it can cause someone not to buy. You would be amazed at the reasons people do not buy. So, don't limit yourself here. Broo Castillo is a friend of mine who runs an enormous life coaching business to give you a different take on the problem solutions list. Brooke sent me her list as she was going through this book to make a grand slam offer for a 90-day relationship course. Take a look to see this process through a totally different lens. The main takeaway, though, don't be fancy. Just get all the problems down, then turn them into solutions. Regardless of whether the offer you create is around fitness like the example, a relationship course like Brooke, or something wildly different like earaches, we now know what we need to do. Step four is the how and how to do it without breaking the bank. Free gift number five, bonus tutorial, offer creation part one. If you want to walk through the process with me live, go to acquisition.com/offers, then select offer creation part one to watch a short video tutorial with yours truly. As always, it's absolutely free. I also have a free offer creation checklist for you that you can swipe and immediately to put in your business. Enjoy. Now, I will read Brooke's list that she gave and she sent to me, which you probably can't see because you're listening to this. Dream outcome: Amazing loving relationship in 90 days. Problems: No good options. No one's attractive. No one's available. Boring. No chemistry. Poor communication. Not hot enough. Sex isn't good. No intellectual stimulation. Not enough effort in the relationship. No time. Insecurity. Needs aren't being met. Too many unmet expectations. Acting crazy emotional relationship is dull. Want different things. Not good at relationships. Too much pressure. Moves too slow. Fizzles out fast. Sexual incompatibility. Solutions list. How to get a list of prospective partners chosen in 90 days. How to be attracted to your chosen partner. How to feel available to your partner. How to make sure 90 days is exciting and nive or boring. How to create chemistry like you've never known. How to communicate in sexy, fun, meaningful ways. How to make the relationship hot by being hot. How to have great sex for 90 days. How to create intellectual stimulation. How to put the effort in the relationship for max return. How to make time for hourly dopamine love hits, etc. Chapter 10. Value offer. Creating your grand slam offer. Part two. Trim and stack. Cut. Cut. Cut friends to Rachel Green in friends. I divided this chapter into two parts because it's the media section in the book. It's also the most important. Without a valuable product or service, the rest of the book won't be as actionable. We just covered all the problems we're going to solve. The second half of making your offer is breaking down tactically what we are going to do or provide for our client. In theory, we'd all love to fly out and live with our customers to fix their problems. In reality, that wouldn't make a very scalable solution. We need our offer to be incredibly attractive and profitable. That being said, if this is your first grand slam offer, it's important to overd deliver like crazy. Maybe flying out isn't such a bad idea in the beginning. Make some sales. Then think about how to make it easier for your clients. You want them to think to themselves, I get all this for only that. In essence, you want them to perceive tremendous value. Everyone buys bargains. Some people just buy $100,000 things for only $10,000. That's where we want to live. high prices but a steal for the value like hopefully this book has been so far. Sales to fulfillment continuum. Something that is easy to sell is typically hard to fulfill. Most things that are hard to sell are typically easy to fulfill. In order to best absorb the notions of trimming and stacking, we need a mental reframe. Enter the sales to fulfillment continuum. Whenever you are building a business, you have a continuum between ease of fulfillment and ease of sales. If you lower what you have to do, it increases how hard your product or service is to sell. If you do as much as possible, it makes your product or service easy to sell but hard to fulfill because there's more demand on your time investment. The trick and ultimate goal is to find the sweet spot where you sell something very well that's also easy to fulfill. I have lived by the mantra create flow, monetize flow, then add friction. This means I generate demand first, then with my offer, I get them to say yes. Once I have people saying yes, then and only then will I add friction in my marketing or decide to offer less for the same price. Practicality drives this practice. If you can't get demand flowing in, then you have no idea whether what you have is good. I'd rather do more for every customer and have cash flow coming in than optimize my business but have zero cash flow coming in after and have zero idea about what I needed to adjust to better serve my customers. Here's a perfect example to drive this home. When I started Gym Launch, gym owners reached out asking for help. They needed so much help, I didn't know where to start. But I wanted to make sure they got more than what they paid me. So, here's what I ended up doing to fill their gyms. I would fly out to their gym for 21 days, spend my own money on hotels, car rentals, eating out, advertising, generate the leads, work the leads, then sell for them. I would even do the first onboarding meeting with the clients to get them started. In short, I did everything. I took on all the risk. They only had to put $500 down to reserve their date, which I made refundable at the end of their launch. So, they had zero financial risk, zero time risk, zero effort, and the deal was I got to keep all the upfront cash collected from selling their services, and they got all the clients for free. You can imagine how this was a pretty compelling offer. On my own, I was able to sell about $100,000 per month in cash upfront for myself. So, these deals were very lucrative for me. Over time, I scaled that to a team of eight guys selling a month. But, this began to wear on me and the team. It was at that point that I realized that if I were to simply teach them how to do what I did, I would charge maybe a third of what I would normally make, but I would be able to help hundreds of gyms a month instead of eight. And I could do it all while sleeping in my own bed every night. My promise was fundamentally the same. I will fill your gym in 30 days. It was simply the how and the what I did that changed. The how and the what is what we are breaking apart. When talking to business owners about their model, I tell them to create cash flow by overd delivering like crazy at first. Then use the cash flow to fix your operations and make your business more efficient. This revision process can be pretty seamless. You may not even have to change what you offer. You may just end up creating systems that create the same value for the customer but cost you significantly fewer resources. Ultimately, this is how businesses beat one another. Understanding this will be important as you scale your business. Now that we've established the importance of the fulcrum and how to approach the sales to fulfillment balance at the outset, let's cover the last two steps of creating our grand slam offer. To recap quickly, remember that we've covered identifying dream outcomes, step one, listing problems, step two, and determining solutions, step three. Step four, create your solutions delivery vehicle, the how. The next step is thinking about all the things you could do to solve each of these problems you've identified. This is the most important step in the process. This is what you're going to deliver. This is what you're going to do or provide in exchange for money. For the purposes of keeping creativity high, divergent thinking, think about anything you could possibly do. Think of all the things that might enhance the value of your offer. So much so that it would be stupid to say no. What could you do that someone would immediately say, "All that seriously? Yes, I'm in." Doing this exercise will make your job of selling so much easier. Even if you come up with something you're not actually willing to do, it's okay. The goal here is to push your limits and jog your brain into thinking of a different version of the solution you'd normally default to. This is where you get to flesh your entrepreneurial creativity. Remember, you only need to do this once, literally one time, for a product that may last years. This is high value, high leverage work. You ultimately get paid for thinking, "You got this. This should be fun. Go ahead and list out all your possibilities now. Then I'll take you through my example. I'll just use the buying food problem from earlier as an example. I like to group things by how many people I'm going to deliver this thing to at once. My list is below at the bottom. I've given you my quote cheat for how to think through this to get even more creative. Problem. Buying healthy food is hard, confusing, and I won't like it. If I wanted to provide a one-on-one solution, I might offer a an in-person grocery shopping experience where I take clients to the store and teach them how to shop. B. Personalized grocery list where I teach them how to make their own list. C. Full service shopping where I buy their food for them. We're talking 100% done for them. D. In-person orientation, not at the store, where I teach them what to get. E. Tech support while shopping, where I help them if they get stuck. F. Phone call while grocery shopping where I plan to call them when they go shopping to provide direction and support in real time. If I wanted to provide a small groupoup solution, I might offer a an in-person grocery shopping where I meet a bunch of people and take them all shopping for themselves. B personalized grocery list where I teach a bunch of people how to make their weekly lists. And I could do this one time or every week if I wanted to. C buy their food for them where I purchase their groceries and deliver them as well. D inerson orientation where I teach a small group off-site what to do just not at the store. If I wanted to provide a one to many solution, I might offer a live grocery store tour where I might stream me going through the grocery store for all my new customers and let them ask questions live. B, a recorded grocery store tour where I might shop once, record it, and then give it as a reference point from that point onwards for my clients to watch on their own. C, a do-it-yourself grocery calculator where I create a sharable tool or show them how to use the tool to calculate their grocery list every week. D. Predetermined list where each customer plan comes with its own grocery list for each week. I could make this ahead of time so they have it. Then they could use it on their own time. E. Grocery buddy system where I could pair each customer with another which takes no time and lets them go shopping together. F. Pre-made Instacart grocery carts for delivery where I could pre-make Instacart list so clients could have their groceries delivered to their doorstep with one click. As you see, the list can really go on and on here. This is just to illustrate the many ways to solve a single problem. Now, do this for all the perceived problems that your clients encounter before, after, and during their experience with your product or service. You should have a monster list by the end of this product delivery cheat codes. What's that? You're having trouble being creative. I'm going to give you the cheat codes right now. Kind of like I did with the brick example. Like the brick could be gold or plastic or have holes in it or be a Lego, etc. Here are my cheat codes for product variation and enhancement and a visual to break down the process for you from my consulting deck for my private portfolio companies. Delivery cube. A. What level of personal attention do I want to provide? One-on-one, small group, one to many? B. What level of effort is expected from them? Do it themselves. Figure out how to do it on their own or do it with them done with you. You teach them how to do it or done for you. Done for them. you do it for them. C. If doing something live, what environment or medium do I want it delivered in? In person, phone support, email support, text support, Zoom support, chat support. D. If doing a recording, how do I want them to consume it? Audio, visual, written. E, how quickly do we want to reply? On what days, during what hours? 24/7, 9 to5, within 5 minutes, within an hour, 24 hours a day. How do I want to support? F 10x to one/10enth test. If my customers paid me 10 times my price or $100,000, what would I provide? If they paid me on my price and I had to make my product more valuable than it already is, how would I do that? How could I still make them successful for onetenth the price? Stretch your mind in either direction and you'll come up with wildly different solutions. In other words, how could I actually deliver on these solutions I am claiming I will provide? Do this for each problem because solutions from one problem will give you ideas for others you wouldn't normally have considered. Remember, it's important that you solve every problem. I can't tell you the amount of times one single item becomes the reason someone doesn't buy. Anecdote: Why we must solve every perceived problem. When I started selling weight loss, I insisted that folks prepare all their food at home. I found it too difficult to help clients lose weight when they ate out because they always blew their diets. Rather than solve the problem, I insisted they do it my way or not at all. As a result, I lost many sales. One month, I really needed to make some sales to pay rent. My next sale walked in the door. It was a business exec looking to lose weight. As we got into the sales presentation, she told me the program wouldn't work for her because she went out to eat for lunch every day. Normally, I would have lost the sale. I was a stickler for making people not eat out, but I really needed the money. Refusing to lose the sale because of this one thing, I conceded. I'll make you an eating out guide for when you go to restaurants so you can eat out 100% of the time and still hit your goal. How does that sound? She agreed and I closed the sale. I took the time to make an eating out guide for her. But from that point going forward, whenever someone said, "But what about eating out?" I had the solution. Over time, I continued solving obstacles with templates and trainings until there were no more one things to prevent my sales. This lesson has stuck with me to this day. Don't get romantic about how you want to solve the problem. Find a way to solve every problem a prospect presents with. When you do that, you make an offer that's so good, people just can't say no. And that's what we're building here. Note, you must resolve every obstacle a buyer believes they will have to convert the highest amount of people. That's not to say that if you don't, you won't sell people. Not at all. You just won't sell as many people as you otherwise could have. And that's the goal, to sell the most people for the highest possible price with the highest possible margin. Step five, trim and stack. Now that we've enumerated our potential solutions, we will have a gigantic list. Next, I look at the cost of providing each of these solutions to me, the business owner. I remove the ones that are the highest cost and lowest value first. Then I remove low cost, low value items. If you aren't sure what's high value, go through the value equation and ask yourself which of these things will this person one financially value. Two, cause them to believe they'll be likely to succeed. Three, make them feel like they can do it with much less effort and less sacrifice. And four, help them accomplish their goal and see the result they want in far less time. What should remain or offer items that are one, low cost, high value, or two, high cost, high value? Example, let's say I moved in with someone and did their shopping, exercising, and cooking for them. they would probably believe they would definitely lose weight, but I am not willing to do that for any amount of money short of a gazillion dollars. The next question becomes, is there a lesser version of this experience that I can deliver at scale? Just take one step back at a time until you arrive at something that has a time commitment or cost that you are willing to live with or obviously massively increase your price so it becomes worth it for you, i.e. the gazillion dollars to live with someone. If there's one type of delivery vehicle to focus on, it's creating high value oneto many solutions. These will be the ones that typically have the biggest discrepancy between cost and value. For example, before I started my gym, I had an online training business. I created a small Excel sheet application that after inputting all of someone's goals, automatically generated 100 meals perfectly suited to their macronutrient calorie needs. Better yet, depending on which meals they selected, it would tell them what they needed to buy at the grocery store in exact amounts and how to prepare them in bulk for the exact amounts. It took me about a 100 hours to put together this entire thing. But from that point going forward, I sold truly personalized eating plans for very expensive prices, but they only took me about 15 minutes to make. High value, low cost. These types of solutions require a high one-time cost of creation, but infinitely low additional effort thereafter. FYI, this is exactly why software becomes so valuable. That doesn't mean you don't want to ever do something in a small group or one-on-one model. After all, I do one-on-one with all my portfolio company CEOs that we help scale past 30 million plus. You just want to make sure that you save those high-cost items for big value ads only. If you think you can accomplish the same value with a lowerc cost alternative, then do that instead. When I was running my gym, I went through this exact exercise and created bulking blueprints and eating out system, a travel eating and workout guide, meal plans for every body weight and gender, a grocery list calculator, plateau busting meal plans for when they got stuck, fast cooking guides, partnered with a meal prep service, and did inerson nutrition orientation with every client 101. Many of the one to many solutions require more work upfront, but once created, they become valuable assets that create value in perpetuity. It's worth putting in the time to create these because they will create high margin profit for years to come. Real talk, the meal plans I made for my gym have been used by 4,000 plus gyms now and literally hundreds of thousands of people. They are simple and easy to follow, so they've provided ample return for the week or two of dedicated time I spent making them. And if you ever have the desire to build a repeatable business model, something that scales, these assets you create will become the bedrock. This book, for example, is a high value asset that is low cost overall. Sure, it cost me a lot upfront, but each additional book I sell after my first one cost me very little and provides tremendous value. The final high-value deliverable. Let's sum this up before we configure our final high-v value deliverable. Step one, we figured out our prospective client's dream outcome. Step two, we listed out all the obstacles they're likely to encounter on the way, aka our opportunities for value creation. Step three, we listed out all those obstacles as solutions. Step four, we figured out all the different ways we could deliver those solutions. Step 5 A, we trim those ways down to only the things that were the highest value and lowest cost to us. All we have to do now is step 5B, put all the bundles together into the ultimate high value deliverable. So, let's go back to the example. We see our prospects struggled with the following. Buying food. How anyone can buy food fast, easy, cheaply, which we turn into foolproof bargain grocery system that'll save hundreds of dollars per month on your food and take less time than your current shopping routine. $1,000 of value for the money it'll save you from this point on in your life. A. Oneonone nutrition orientation while I explain how to use. B. Recorded grocery store. C. Do-it-yourself grocery calculator. D. Each plan comes with its own list for the week. E. Bargain grocery shopping training. F. Grocery buddy system. G. Pre-made Instakart grocery carts for delivery. H. And a check-in via text weekly. Cooking. To solve this problem. Ready in 5minute busy parent cooking guide. How anyone can eat healthy even if they have no time. $600 value from getting 200 hours per year back. That's four weeks of work. A. Oneonone nutrition orientation where I explain how to use. B. Meal prep instructions. C. Do-it-yourself meal prep calculator. D. Each plane comes with its own meal prep instructions for the week. E. Meal prep buddy system. F. Healthy snacks in under five minutes guide. G. A weekly post. They can tag me in for feedback. To solve the eating problem. Personalized lick your fingers good meal plan. So good it'll be easier to follow than eating what you used to cheat with and cost less. $500 value. A. Oneonone nutrition orientation where I explain how to use. B. Personalized meal plan. C. 5minute morning shake guide. D. 5minute budget lunches. E 5minute budget dinners. F familyized meals. G. A daily picture of their meals. H. 101 feedback meeting to make adjustments to their plan, which FYI was an upsell. Exercise problem. Fat burning workouts proven to burn more fat than doing it alone. Adjusted to your needs so you never go too fast. Plateau or risk injuries. $699 value. To solve the traveling problem. The ultimate tone up while you travel eating and workout blueprint for getting amazing workouts and with no equipment so you don't feel guilty enjoying yourself. $199 value. How to actually stick with it. The never fall off accountability system. The unbeatable system that works without your permission. It's even gotten people who hate coming to the gym to look forward to showing up. $1,000 value. How to be social. The live it up while slimming down eating out system that will give you the freedom to eat out and live life without feeling like the odd man out. $349 value. Total value $4,351. All for only $599. Author note, most of our facilities now sell this bundle for longer periods of time for $2,400 to $5,200. Wild. As we got better at creating and monetizing value, the prices and profit of our facilities skyrocket. Once you start this value creation process, each additional piece of value you create stacks up over time. This is why it's important to begin. Can you see how much more valuable this is than a gym membership? The bundle does three core things. One, it solves all the perceived problems, not just some. Two, gives you the conviction that what you're selling is one of a kind. Very important. Three, makes it impossible to compare or confuse your business or offering with the one down the street. Woo! We finally have what we are going to deliver in all its glory. That being said, it's unlikely we would present it this way. Depending on whether we sell 101 or one to many, we would present this differently. I will address how to present each of these bundled items in the bonu