# Part 5 of 10

by talking about how other people will perceive the prospect's achievement. Connect the dots for them. Example, if you buy this golf club, your drive will increase by 40 yards. Your golf buddy's jaws will drop when they see your ball soar 40 yard past theirs. They will ask you what's changed. Only you will know. That being said, when comparing two products or services that satisfy the same desire, the value from the dream outcomes will cancel out since they are the same. It will be the other three variables that drive the difference in perceived value and ultimately price. For example, if we had two products or services that both help make someone beautiful. It will be the likelihood of achievement, time delay, and effort required that will differentiate the perceived value of each offer. Simply put, if two things make someone beautiful, what makes one worth $50,000 and another worth $5? Answer, the extent of the other three value variables. Number two, perceived likelihood of achievement. Our goal, increase. This was the last of the variables that I added when trying to think through this framework a few years ago. I just felt like something was missing with only the other three. Then I realized people pay for certainty. They value certainty. I call this the perceived likelihood of achievement. In other words, how likely do I believe that it is that I will achieve the result that I am looking for if I make this purchase. For example, how much would you pay to be a plastic surgeon's 10,000th patient versus their first? If you're a normal, sane person, a lot more. I mean, heck, you might even ask them to pay you if you're their first patient ever. So you can see even from this simple example that while the service you are receiving is technically the same, the only thing that changes is your perceived likelihood of getting what you want, both surgeons take the same amount of time to do the surgery. If anything, the guy who has done it 10,000 times would likely get it done faster and still charge more. The more experienced surgeon has a track record of achieving a result, which incentivizes their desiraability. People value this perceived likeative achievement. Increasing a prospect's conviction that your offer will actually work for them will make your offer that much more valuable even though the work remains the same on your end. So to increase value with all offers, we must communicate perceived likely of achievement through our messaging proof what we choose to include or exclude in our offer and our guarantees. More on this later. Number three, time delay. Our goal increase. Time delay is the time between a client buying and receiving the promised benefit. The shorter the distance between when they make the purchase and when they receive value slash the outcome, the more valuable your service or product is. There are two elements to this driver of value. Long-term outcome and short-term experience. Many times there are short-term experiences that occur and route to the long-term outcomes. They happen along the way and provide value. It's good to understand both. The thing people buy is the long-term value, aka the dream outcome. But the thing that makes them stay long enough to get it is the short-term experience. These are the little milestone a prospect sees along the way that shows them they are on the right path. We try and tie as many of these as possible into any service we offer. We want clients to have a big emotional win early as close as possible to their purchase. This gives them the emotional buyin and the momentum to see it through to their ultimate goal. For example, it takes a while to add an extra $239,000 per year to a gym, but that's what they're buying. So, once they have purchased, we need to create emotional wins fast. One of the ways we do this is to get their ads live and get them to close their first $2,000 sale within their first 7 days. By doing this, their decision to work with us is reinforced, and they immediately trust us more. This makes them more likely to follow the rest of our systems and get to their ultimate destination. Pro tip: Fast wins. Always try and incorporate short-term immediate wins for a client. Be creative. They just need to know that they're on the right path and they made the right decision trusting you in your business. Let me give you another example. If I sell someone a bikini body, their time delay to realize that outcome may be 12 months or even longer. Along the way, though, as they change their bodies, they may experience higher sex drive, more energy, and an increased community of friends. They aren't initially buying those things, but those things may become short-term benefits that keep them in the game long enough to achieve their ultimate outcome. They buy the dream, but they stay for the benefits they discover along the way. The faster and more clearly you can demonstrate those benefits, the more valuable your service will be. For a weight loss customer, we would get them to meet someone else so they immediately had some social benefits from the program. And we usually give them a more aggressive diet in the beginning. Why? because we wanted them to have a big fast emotional win so we could get them to commit to the long term. This is also backed by science. People who experience a victory early on are more likely to continue with something than those who do not. That being said, having to wait 12 to 24 months to get you what you want is a long time when you can do lipo section and be done in an afternoon. This just shows one of the reasons people pay $25,000 for a lipo section with a tummy tuck while people will barely pay $100 a month to join a boot camp. But that's not the only reason, is it? That leads me to the last driver of value, effort and sacrifice. Pro tip, fast beats free. The only thing that beats free is fast. People will pay for speed. Many companies have entered free spaces and done exceedingly well with a speed first strategy. A few notable companies, the MVD versus the DMV, wait in line forever or pay $50. You can skip the line and get your license renewed privately. FedEx versus USPS when it absolutely positively has to be there overnight. Spotify versus slow free music, Uber versus walking, fast beats free. Many will always be willing to pay price for the value of speed. So if you find yourself in a market competing against free, double down on speed. Number four, effort and sacrifice. Our goal decrease. This is what it costs people in ancillary cost, aka other costs acrewed along the way. These can be both tangible and intangible. Using the fitness lipo suction example, let's look at the difference in effort and sacrifice. Fitness effort and sacrifice. Wake up 1 to two hours earlier in the morning, 5 to 10 hours per week of time lost, stop eating the foods you love, constant hunger, physical soreness, feelings of embarrassment and not knowing how to exercise, risk of injury, literal nausea, working out, meal prepping, new groceries, more expensive groceries, new clothing, fear of gaining it back after all this effort, aka impermanence, etc. lipos suction effort and sacrifice. Fall asleep, wake up thin, guaranteed, be sore for 2 to 4 weeks. Massive difference, right? In fact, in looking at the marketing of plastic surgeons, these are the exact pain points they hit on when they say things like, "Tired of wasting countless hours in the gym? Tired of diets that just don't work?" This is why when you sell fitness, you have to spend an hour arm wrestling a client to give over onetenth or 1/100th of the amount of money they pay for surgery. There's just not a lot of perceived value because the perceived likelihood of achievement, the time delay to achievement, and the effort and sacrifice are so high. So even though the outcome is the same, the value of the vehicles are dramatically different, hence the difference in price. Decreasing the effort and sacrifice, or at least the perceived effort and sacrifice can massively boost the appeal of your offer. In an ideal world, a prospect would want to simply say yes and have their dream outcome happen with no more effort on their behalf. This is why done for you services are almost always more expensive than do-it-yourself because a person doesn't have to do all the effort and sacrifice. There's also a component of perceived likelihood of achievement difference as well. People believe that if an expert does it, then they will be more likely to achieve the outcome than if they try on their own. My hope is that you now have a foundational understanding of the components of value and how the interplay between each of the components creates or detracts from the value someone might be willing to pay. putting it all together. As I said earlier, these elements of value don't happen in a vacuum. They happen together in combination. So, let's look at a few examples that utilize all four components of value of once. In an effort to quantify the value, I'll write them on a binary scale of 0 or one. One being value achieved, zero being missing. Then, I will add all four together to give you a relative value rating of a type of service. Our goal as marketers and business owners is to increase the value of the dream outcome and its perceived likelihood of achievement while decreasing the time delay of achievement and the effort and sacrifice one has to put in to get there. To start, I will do a side-by-side comparison of two vehicles with identical dream outcomes. Meditation and Xanax both offer the buyer relaxation, decreased anxiety, and feelings of well-being. I will demonstrate how the other three variables dramatically shift the value of delivering that dream outcome and ultimately the price. Meditation versus Xanax. So, I'm going to read the chart below to compare relative scores on each of the four value drivers. Meditation, dream outcome, relaxation, decreased anxiety, feelings of well-being. Score 1 out of one. Perceived likelihood of achievement low since most people get distracted and don't actually think they'll follow through with daily meditation. Score 0 out of one. Time delay, long time to yield long-term results. Some immediate benefits after 10 to 20 minutes, assuming you don't get frustrated. Score.5 out of one. Effort and sacrifice. Physical discomfort, numb body limbs often. Mental discomfort, feeling like you are failing constantly. Time sacrifice. You have to set aside time every day to do this. Score 0 out of 1. Overall value score for meditation low 1.5 out of four. Now let's look at Xanax. Dream outcome same as meditation. Relaxation decrease anxiety feelings of wellbeing. Score 1 out of one. Perceived likelihood of achievement high since most people are confident that if they take the pill, it will make them feel more relaxed. Score 1 out of one. Time delay 15 minutes for effects to be felt. Score 1 out of one. Effort and sacrifice swallowing a pill. Score 1 out of one. Overall value score high 4 out of four. And that is why Zenex is a multi-billion dollar product while I know of almost no multi-billion dollar meditation businesses. Value. I'm not here to argue about whether meditation is better than Xanax. Obviously, it is. But that doesn't mean it's perceived as more valuable. This is also the reason that supplement industry 123 billion according to Grand View Research is twice the size of the health club industry 62 billion according to Hersa. They both accomplish the same perceived objectives being healthy, losing weight, looking good, increasing energy, etc. But one is perceived as more valuable because it has lower costs. People are more willing to pay $200 for supplements than they are for a $29 per month membership. Taking a pill or drinking a shake is so much faster and easier than going to the gym every day. Hence, valued. Crazy world we live in. And you can either sit there and make complain posts about how people ought to be a certain way or you can take advantage of the way people are and capitalize. This book is for those people who want to be victors, not victims of circumstance. You can either be right or you can be rich. This book is for getting rich. If that bothers you, you can put this down and go back to arguing against human nature. Hint, you're not going to change it. Now, that being said, knowing what people value versus what is good for them is key. It means you can find ways to monetize the things that people value in order to give them what they really need. Win-win. You can make your dent in the universe while making a profit. Chapter 7. Pre-Goodwill. He who said money can't buy happiness hasn't given enough away. Source unknown. People who help others with zero expectation experience higher levels of fulfillment, live longer, and make more money. I'd like to create the opportunity to deliver this value to you during your reading or listening experience. In order to do so, I have a simple question for you. Would you help someone you've never met if it didn't cost you money, but you never got credit for it? If so, I have an ask to make on behalf of someone you do not know and likely never will. They are just like you or like you were a few years ago. Less experienced, full of desire to help the world, seeking information but unsure where to look. This is where you come in. The only way for us at acquisition.com to accomplish our mission of helping entrepreneurs is first by reaching them. And most people do, in fact, judge a book by its cover and its reviews. If you have found this book valuable thus far, would you please take a brief moment right now and leave an honest review of the book and its contents? It will cost you $0 and less than 60 seconds. Your review will help one more entrepreneur support his or her family, one more employee find work they find meaningful, one more client experience a transformation they otherwise would not have encountered. One more life change for the better. To make that happen, all you have to do is, and this takes less than 60 seconds, leave a review. If you're on Audible, hit the three dots on the top right of your device, click and rate and review, and then leave a few sentences about the book with a star rating. If for some reason they have changed the functionality, you can go to the book page of Amazon or wherever you purchase this and leave a review right on the page. PS. If you feel good about helping a faceless entrepreneur, you are my kind of people. I'm that much more excited to help you crush it in the coming chapters. You'll love the tactics I'm about to go over. PPS, life hack. If you introduce something valuable to someone, they associate that value with you. If you'd like goodwill directly from another entrepreneur, send this book their way. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. Now, back to our regularly scheduled programming. Your biggest fan, Alex. Chapter 8. Value offer the thought process. If at first you don't succeed, try try again. Thomas H. Palmer, Teachers Manual. I want to do an exercise with you right now. I want to show you the difference between convergent and divergent problem solving. Why? So that you can actually create the grand slam offer that will become the cornerstone of your business. Convergent and divergent thinking. In simple terms, convergent problem solving is where you take lots of variables, all known, with unchanging conditions, and converge on a singular answer. Think math. Example, you have three sales people who can each take 100 calls per month. It takes four calls to create one sale, including no shows. You need to get to 110 sales. How many sales people must you hire? Deduced information. One salesperson equals 100 calls. Four calls equal one close. 100 calls divided by four calls per close equals 25 closes per 100 calls. 25 closes per rep. Goal: 110 sales total divid 25 sales per rep equals 4.4. Since you can't hire 4.4 reps, you decide you must have five. Answer. And since you have three, you hire two more. Math problems are convergent. There are a lot of variables and a single answer. We are taught all our lives in school to think this way. That's because it's easy to grade. But life will pay you for your ability to solve problems using a divergent thought process. In other words, think of many solutions to a single problem. Not only that, convergent answers are binary. They're either right or wrong. With divergent thinking, you can have multiple right answers and one answer that is way more right than the others. Cool, right? Here's what life presents us for divergent thinking. Multiple variables, known and unknown, dynamic conditions, multiple answers. As such, I want to do an exercise with you right now that will engage the part of your brain that you will need to use in order to make something magical. I call it the brick exercise. Don't worry, it will take 120 seconds. The brick exercise. Right now, I want you to set a timer on your phone for 120 seconds. What you need to do, think of a brick. Write down as many different uses of a brick as you can possibly think of. How many different ways could a brick be used in life to provide value? Ready? Go. It's okay to write in the book or write on a notepad on the side. All right, stop. Now, before I show you my list, did you consider the following? How big is the brick? A tab of gum 3 to 5x 8 2 1x 4 standard 2 ft x 2 ft x 6 feet. What's the brick made of? Plastic, gold, clay, wood, metal. How's the brick shaped? Does it have holes in it? Has divots for interlocking? Now, as you think about that, can you think of even more uses for the brick than you probably wrote down? Well, here's my list. Paperwe doorstep building things. Home for a fish in a fishbowl. Plant holder with dirt holes. Hold brick as a trophy. Painted brick. Rustic decoration to break a window. Make a mural. Tiny bricks painted. A weight for resistance training. A wedge under an uneven platform. Pen holder or hold brick. Children's toy. Lego bricks. Flotation device. Plastic brick. Payment for goods. Gold brick. Stabilizer for leaning against something. Retainer of value. Holder for flagpole. Old brick. A seat. Jumbo brick. Every offer has building blocks, the pieces that when combined make an offer irresistible. Our goal is to use a divergent thought process to think of as many easy ways to combine these elements to provide value. So, if I were selling a brick, I would find out what my customer's desire was and then devise how many ways I would create value with my brick. Now, let's do it for real. Chapter nine, value offer. Creating your grand slam offer, part one, problems and solutions. ABC. Easy as 1 2 3. Ah, simple as do reay me. Michael Jackson, ABC. When I started my gym, I struggled. I wanted so deeply to be successful, prove my dad wrong about my decision to start my own business, and prove to myself that I was worth something. But try as I did, I couldn't even sell people into a $99 a month boot camp. People would say LA Fitness is $29 a month. This is expensive. I even tried getting people to start for free. They said they wouldn't bother because $99 a month afterwards was still too much and they didn't want to start something they couldn't continue with. It's a new level of frustration when you can't even give your services away for free to people. I felt worthless and I didn't know what to do. Thankfully, during this time, I was in groups with other gym owners and I started hearing about marketers and books. I devoured everything I could. And as soon as I stumbled on Dan Kennedy's books, I was hooked. In his books, he talked about making irresistible offers. Again, this theme of making an offer so good people would feel stupid to say no kept reappearing. But this time, remembering what TJ had told me, I'd decided to go all in on this concept rather than just do what everyone else was doing. But how? Everyone else was selling $99 per month boot camps. How is I going to compete? So, I decided to look at what we did differently. I thought, what do they really want? No one wants a membership. They want to lose weight. Step one, identify dream outcome. I had heard of weight loss challenges, so I started there. Lose 20 pounds in 6 weeks. Big dream outcome. Lose 20 pounds with a decreased time delay. 6 weeks. Note, I wasn't selling my membership anymore. I wasn't selling the plane flight. I was selling the solution. When you are thinking about your dream outcome, it has to be them arriving at their destination and what they would like to experience. Step two, list problems. Next, I wrote down all the things people struggled with and their limiting thoughts around them. When listing out problems, think about what happens immediately before and immediately after someone uses your product or service. What's the next thing they need help with? These are the problems. Think about it in insane detail. If you do, you will create a more valuable and compelling offer as you'll continually be answering people's next problem as they manifest. So, let's go ahead and list out the problems from a prospect's perspective as you think about them. What points of friction exist for them? I like to think about it in sequence that the customer will experience each of these obstacles. Again, channel insane detail. The more problems, the better. Example problems list. Weight loss. The first thing they must do. Buying healthy food. Grocery shopping. Problems. One, buying healthy food is hard, confusing, and I won't like it. Two, buying healthy food will take too much time. Three, buying healthy food is expensive. Four, I will not be able to cook healthy food forever. My family needs will get in the way. If I travel, I won't know what to buy. Next thing they must do, cook healthy food. One, cooking healthy food is hard and confusing. I won't like it and I will suck at it. Two, cooking healthy food will take too much time. Three, cooking healthy food is expensive. It's not worth it. Four, I will not be able to cook healthy food forever. My family's needs will get in my way, and if I travel, I won't know how to cook healthy. Next thing they must do, eat healthy food. Next thing they must do, exercise regularly, etc. Now, we're going full circle here. Each of the above problems has four negative elements. And you guessed it, each align with the four value drivers as well. Dream outcome, perceived likelihood of achievement, time delay, effort, and sacrifice. One, dream outcome. This will not be financially worth it. Two, likelihood of achievement. It won't work for me specifically. I won't be able to stick with it. External factors will get in my way. This is the most unique and service specific of the problem buckets. Three, effort and sacrifice. This will be too hard, confusing. I won't like it. I will suck at it. Four, time. This will take too much time to do. I'm too busy to do this. It will take too long to work. It will not be convenient for me. Now, go ahead and list out all problems your prospect has. Don't let these buckets, which are just meant to help your brain get going, constrain you. If it's easier for you, just list out everything you can possibly think of. What I showed here isn't just four problems, though. We have 16 core problems with 2 to four sub problems underneath. So, 32 to 64 problems total. Yaoza, no wonder most people don't achieve their goals. Do not get overwhelmed. This is the best news ever. The more problems you can think of, the more problems you get to solve. So, to recap, just list out each core thing that someone has to do. Then, think of all the reasons they wouldn't be able to do it or keep doing it using the four value drivers as a guide. Now, we go to the fun part, turning problems into solutions. Now that we have our dream outcome and all the obstacles that will get in someone's way, it's time to define our solutions and list them out. Creating the solutions list has two steps. First, we're going to transform our problems into solutions. Second, we're going to name these solutions. That's it. So, let's take a look at our list of problems from earlier. What we're going to do is simply turn them into solutions by thinking, what would I need to show someone to solve this problem? Then, we're going to reverse each element of the obstacle into solutionoriented language. This is copyrightiting 101. It's beyond the scope of this book to get into, but simply adding how to then reversing the problem will give most people new to this process a great place to start. For our purposes, we are giving ourselves a checklist of exactly what we are going to do for our prospects and what we are going to solve for them. Once we have our list of solutions, we will operationalize how we are actually going to solve these problems, aka create value in the next step. And I want to be 100% clear, you will solve every problem. We'll explore how together in the next step. Problem solution. Problem. Buying healthy food. Grocery shopping is hard, confusing, I won't like it, I will suck at it becomes how to make buying healthy food easy and enjoyable so that anyone can do it, especially moms. Buying healthy food takes too much time. How to buy healthy food quickly. Buying healthy food is expensive. How to buy healthy food for less than your c