# Part 4 of 10

g on price or value. In fact, they're not actually competing on anything at all. Their pricing process typically goes something like this. Step one, look at marketplace. Step two, see what everyone else offers. Step three, take the average. Step four, go slightly below to remain quote competitive. End quote. Step five, provide what their competitors offer with a little more. Step six, end up with a value proposition of more for less. And the big secret, those competitors they are copying are dead broke. So why on earth copy them? Pricing where the market is means you're pricing for market efficiency. Over time, in an efficient marketplace, more competitors enter offering a little more for a little less until eventually no one can provide any more for any less. At this point, a market reaches perfect efficiency, and the business owners participating make just enough at the end of the month to keep going. The bottom 10 to 20% of operators get washed out or lose the will to fight. Then, fresh business owners enter with no idea and repeat the process of their forefathers, and around and around they go. In plain words, pricing this way means you are providing a service at just above what it costs for you to stay above water. We are not trying to barely stay above water. We are trying to make egregious amounts of money that will have your relatives asking if what you do is legal. Again, we are not trying to get the most customers. We are trying to make the most money. That being said, since there is no strategic benefit to being the second lowest priced player in your marketplace, allow me to give you a brief overview of why I see premium pricing as not only a very smart business decision, but a moral one. Furthermore, it's the only choice that will allow you to truly provide the most value, a unique and strong position in the marketplace. Let me introduce you to the virtuous cycle of price. I've used this framework in most of the materials I release because it needs to be consistently reinforced. The forces of the marketplace will grate on your belief system. You must stay strong and ignore them. Here's the basic premise of why you need to charge a premium if you want to best serve your customers. When you decrease your price, you decrease your client's emotional investment since it didn't cost them much. You decrease your client's perceived value of your service since it can't be that good if it's so cheap or priced the same as everyone else. You decrease your client's results because they do not value your service and are not invested. You attract the worst clients who are never satisfied until your service is free. And you destroy any margin you have left to be able to actually provide an exceptional experience. Hire the best people, invest in your people, pamper your clients, invest in growth, invest in more locations or more scale, and everything else you had hoped in the goal of helping more people solve whatever problem it is that you solve. In essence, your world sucks. And to make matters worse, your service probably sucks because you are squeezing blood from the proverbial stone. There's just not enough money left over to make something exceptional. As a result, you fall in line with the armies of average businesses that race to the bottom. I've lived that life. It's terrible. If you love your customers and your employees, please stop shortchanging them when there is a better way. Here's the reverse. This is what happens when you raise your prices. When you raise your prices, you increase your client's emotional investment. You increase your client's perceived value of your service. You increase your client's results because they value your service and are invested. You attract the best clients who are the easiest to satisfy and actually cost less to fulfill and who are most likely to actually receive and perceive the most relative value. You multiply your margin because you have money to invest in systems to create efficiency, smart people, improve customer experience, scale your business, and most importantly of all to keep watching the number in your personal bank account go up month after month, even with reinvesting in your business. This allows you to ultimately enjoy the process for the long haul and help more people grow rather than burning out and shriveling into obscurity. To swing the argument even further in favor of higher prices, here are a few interesting concepts. When you raise your price, you increase the value the consumer receives without changing anything else about your product. Wait, what? Yes. Higher price means higher value. Literally. In a blind taste test, researchers ask consumers to rate three wines. a low price wine, a medium price wine, and an expensive wine. Throughout the study, the participants rated the wines with the prices visible. They rated them unsurprisingly in order of their price, with the most expensive being the best, the second most expensive being the second best, and the third cheapest option being rated as a cheap wine. What the tasters didn't know is that the researchers gave them the exact same wine all three times. Yet, the tasters reported a wide discrepancy between the high-priced wine and the cheap wine. This has deep implications for the direct relationship between value and price. In essence, raising your prices can directly enhance the value you provide. What's more, the higher the price, the more lure your product or service has. People want to buy expensive things. They just need a reason. And the goal isn't to just be slightly above market price. The goal is to be so much higher that a consumer thinks to themselves, this is so much more expensive. There must be something entirely different going on here. That is how you create a category of one. In this new perceived marketplace, you are a monopoly and can make monopoly profits. That is the point. One final point I want to drive home. If you offer a service where a customer must do something in order to achieve the result or solve the problem you say you solve, they must be invested. The more invested they are, the more likely they are to achieve the positive result. Therefore, it follows that if you care about your customers, you should get them as invested as humanly possible. Ideally, this means pricing your services or product in such a way that it stings a little when they buy. That sting will force and focus their attention and their investment in your product or service. Those who pay the most pay the most attention. And if your customers are more adherent and follow through and if they achieve better results with your service than your competition, then you are in a very real way providing more value than anyone else. This is how you win. But I know this isn't easy and it shouldn't be. Your product must deliver. So many wish to shortcut the real work. Do that and you will fail. In the real world, to have the quote gonads to charge big ticket prices, you must outwork yourself. You must be so confident in your delivery because you have done it so many times that you know that this person will succeed. Experience is what gives you the conviction to ask for someone's entire year salary as payment. You must believe so deeply in your solution that when you look at yourself in the mirror at night alone, your conviction remains unshakable. So, let me bring this section to home with my personal experience, my premium price experience. In my first niche consulting business, Gym Launch, I teach owners a better business model. Before productizing my consulting services, I flew out to 33 gyms in 18 months to do full gym turnarounds. We would fly out, fix everything in gym, and relaunch it in 21 days. We would average an increase in $42,000 in additional sales in 21 days. It was wild. My fee was 100% of the revenue I would bring in. At our peak, we were turning around eight gyms a month. This quickly became a logistical nightmare. After the wear and tear of living in motel month after month after month, I thought to myself, "There has to be a better way to do this." One month, there was a gym we were scheduled to go fly out to, but I simply didn't want to do it. So, I told them we were going to cancel the engagement. The gym owner practically threatened me to help him. So, I said I would help him, but he would have to do all the work. But I would show him how. Within 30 days, this gym made almost $44,000 in new upfront cash collected, which was four times their previous month. As soon as I saw that my process could be duplicated from afar without me having to fly people in, our business exploded. I had found the missing link because my travel schedule was no longer a constraint. We went on to sell 4,000 plus more gyms over the next few years and counting using a done with you rather than done for you model. But back to premium pricing. When I entered the space, lowpric competitors offered full service marketing solutions for $500 per month with a single highpric competitor charging $5,000 for his product. I wanted to be the premium price leader. I wanted to be so expensive that it created a lure around what we were doing. So, we came in at three times the highest priced player and 32 times more than the lowest priced player. A price of 16,000 for a 16we done with you intensive. Then we upsold 35% of those people into a threeyear $42,000 per year agreement for us to help them grow their gyms. For context, the average gym owner makes $35,280 per year in take-home profits. If that's the average, it means half make even less than that. So for many of them, they were committing to half of their yearly salary or more to buy our program. And I was selling this to grown men as a kid in his 20s, telling them I was going to help them make more money. This was possible because my conviction was stronger than their skepticism. How? Based on a voluntary survey taken at our last full company event with 158 gyms responding, we found that a gym launch gym who has been in our program for 11 months will experience the following average improvements. Topline revenue growth of $239,000 per year. Recurring revenue growth of $160,000 a year. Bottom line growth aka profit from 2943 per month to 89.40 per month. That's 3.1x increase. average client growth of an additional 67 clients. Churn, aka percentage of clients who leave each month, drops from 10.7% before to 6.8%. Retail sales, an additional 4,400 per month in retail sales after they started working with us. Prices on average went from 129 per month to 167 per month in average revenue per gym member. Their survey just proved what I already knew. I had complete conviction our product. I knew it worked. I had outworked my self-doubt. Summary points. What should you take from this? First and foremost, charge a premium. It will allow you to do things no one else can to make your client successful. We were able to charge a premium because we provided more value than anyone else in the industry. In a real way, we were charging only a fraction of what our clients made using our system. This is important. Our clients still got a deal. The gap between what they paid price and what they got value was massive. As a result, the virtuous cycle continued to spin. We charged the most money. We provided the most value. Our gyms remained the most competitive, made the most money, always had the latest and best acquisition systems, and had the support to implement them at lightning speed. We made many mistakes along the way, but our pricing model was not one of them. It allowed me the room to make big bets without losing the farm. The truth is that 99% of businesses need to raise their prices to grow, not lower them. Profit is oxygen. It fuels the fire of growth. You need that if you want to reach more people and make a bigger impact. In order to charge so much though, you must learn to create tremendous value. Let's head there next. Section three, value. Create your offer. How to make offers so good people feel stupid saying no. Chapter six, value offer. The value equation. We question all of our beliefs except for the ones we really believe in and those we never think to question. Orson Scott card. I want to be abundantly clear. The goal should be to charge as much money for your products or services as humanly possible. I'm talking heinous amounts of money. That being said, anyone can raise their prices, but only a select few can charge these rates and get people to say yes. From this point forward, you must abandon any notion you have about what's fair. Every enormous company in the world charges you money for things that cost them nothing. It costs pennies for the phone company to add an additional user. Except they don't mind charging you hundreds of dollars per month for access. It costs pennies to manufacture pharmaceutical drugs, but they don't mind charging hundreds of dollars per month for it. Media companies charge advertisers a king's ransom for your eyeballs, and it cost them next to nothing to get you to like kitten photos on social media. You need to have a big discrepancy between what something costs you and what you charge for it. It is the only way to become unreasonably wealthy. Many entrepreneurs believe that charging too much is bad. The reality is yes, you should never charge more than your product is worth, but you should charge far more for your product and services than it costs to fulfill. Think up to a hundred times more, not just two or three times more. And if you provide enough value, it should always still be a steal for the prospect. That is the power of value. It unleashes unlimited pricing and profit power to scale your company. For example, one of my private clients whose company I have equity in in our portfolio is in the photography space. Over two years implementing the tactics outlined in this book, the owner was able to increase the average ticket from $300 to $1,500. That's a 5x increase. Gasp. Even cooler, they now spend less time per customer and have higher customer satisfaction. The 5x increase in average ticket 38xed the profit of the business. It went from making $1,000 a week in profit to $38,000 per week in profit and continues to grow. As a result, the company was finally able to continue to scale to multiple locations and provide meaningful work to great employees. And a fun benefit, we were able to donate even more money to children's charities, which is something the owner and I have in common, almost a million dollars at the time of this writing. But none of that would have been possible without figuring out what people valued most, tripling down on it, and ruthlessly eliminating everything else. A 5x price increase may seem crazy to you, but clients voted with their dollars that what the company provides now is far better than what it did before. Cracking value opens up the world of unlimited profit, impact, and possibilities. Those who understand value are the ones who will be able to charge the most money for their services. The good news is that there is a repeatable formula that I have created. I've never seen it displayed elsewhere to help quantify the variables that create value for any offer. I call it the value equation. Once you see it, you can never unsee it. It will operate in your subconscious running in the background calling out to you. It's a new lens through which to see the world. The value equation. Dream outcome times perceived likelihood of achievement divided by time delay time effort and sacrifice equals value. Free gift number four, value equation bonus tutorial and free downloads. If you want to know how I break down business's core offering into something more valuable, go to acquisitions.com/trainings/offers and select the value equation video to watch your short tutorial. I also included a downloadable checklist. My goal is to gain your trust and deliver value in advance. As such, it's absolutely free. Enjoy. So, as you can see or here, there are four primary drivers to value. Two of the drivers, which are the top two parts of the equation, you will seek to increase. The other two on the bottom of the equation, you will seek to decrease. So one, yay, the dream outcome. Our goal is to increase. Two, yay, perceived likelihood of achievement. Our goal is to increase. Three, boo, perceived time delay between start and achievement. Our goal is to decrease. Four, boo, perceived effort and sacrifice. Our goal is to decrease. If you notice the questions in the last section that my father asked me, you'll see the corresponded with these pillars. What will I make? Dream outcome. How will I know it's going to happen? Perceived likelihood of achievement. How long will it take? Time delay. What is expected of me? Effort and sacrifice. Get the bottom to zero. In the beginning of my career, I focused all my attention on dream outcomes and the perception of achievement, social proof, third party edification, etc. In other words, the top side of the equation. That's where beginner marketers make bigger and bigger claims. It's easy and it's lazy. But as time has gone on, I have realized these larger than life claims are the easiest to establish and therefore less unique. After all, anyone can make a promise. The harder and more competitive are the time delay and effort and sacrifice. The best companies in the world focus all their attention on the bottom side of the equation, making things immediate, seamless, and effortless. Apple made the iPhone effortless compared to other phones at the time. Amazon made purchasing a single click of a button and made purchases arrive almost immediately. Maybe by the time you read this, they'll be sending drones to our doors within 60 minutes. Netflix made consuming television immediate and effortless. So the older I get, the more I have shifted my focus to the quote hard stuff, decreasing the bottom side of the equation. And I believe the better you do this, the more you will be rewarded by the marketplace. Final note, the reason this is a division equation and not addition is that I want to convey one key point. If you can make the bottom part of the equation equal to 0, you are golden. No matter how small the top side is, anything divided by 0 equals infinity, which is technically undefined for math nerds. In other words, if you can reduce your prospect's true time delay to receiving value to zero, aka you realize your immediate dream outcome and your effort and sacrifice is zero, you have an infinitely valuable product. If you accomplish this, you win the game. Given this postulate, a prospect would in theory purchase something from you and the moment their credit card was run, it would immediately become their reality. That is infinite value. Imagine clicking the purchase button on a weight loss product and instantly seeing your stomach turn into a six-pack. Or imagine hiring a marketing firm and as soon as you sign your document, your phone begins to ring with new, highly qualified prospects. How valuable would these products or services be? Infinitely valuable. And that's the point. I don't know if we entrepreneurs will ever get there, but that is the hypothetical limit we should all strive towards and why I structured the equation this way. Perception is reality. Perception is reality. It's not about how much you increase your prospect's likelihood of success or decrease the time delay to achievement or decrease their effort and sacrifice. That in and of itself is not valuable. Many times they will have no idea. The grand slam offer only becomes valuable once the prospect perceives the increase in likelihood of achievement, perceives the decrease in time delay, and perceives the decrease in effort and sacrifice. A prime example of this happened on the London tunnel system. The biggest increase in rider satisfaction, aka value, was never from faster trains to decrease weight times. Instead, it was from a simple dotted map that showed them when the next train was coming and how long they had to wait. The dotted map, which only cost a few million, decreased the riders perception of time, delay, and sacrifice, aka being bored waiting, more than actually making the trains faster, which cost billions of dollars to do. Isn't that cool? This is how we need to think about our products. Pro tip, logical versus psychological solutions. Most people naturally try and solve problems using logical solutions, but the logical solutions have already been tried because they're logical. It's what everyone would try and do. As business owners and entrepreneurs, I increasingly approach problems to find psychological solutions rather than logical ones. Because if there were a logical solution, it probably would have already been solved, thereby eliminating the problem. All that remains are the psychological problems. Example inspired by Rory Sutherland, CMO of Oglev Advertising. Any fool can sell a product by offering it for a discount. It takes great marketing to sell the same product for a premium. Logical solution, make trains faster to increase satisfaction. Psychological solution, decrease the pain of waiting by adding a dotted map. Psychological solution, pay models to be the hostesses on the trip. People would wish it took longer to get to their destination. Logical solution, make elevator faster. Psychological solution, add floor to ceiling mirrors so people are distracted staring at themselves and forget how long they were on the elevator. Logical solution, make it cheaper. Psychological solution, make fewer of them and raise the price, which would cause more people to want it. Often, most logical solutions have been tried and failed. At this point in history, we must give the psychological solutions a shot to solve problems. As such, as business owners, it's up to us to communicate these value drivers with clarity to increase the prospect's perception of these realities. The extent to which you answer these questions in the mind of your prospect will determine the value you are creating. Only then will we truly be able to realize the actual value of our product to the marketplace and by extension the egregious prices we wish to charge. It's difficult to separate four value drivers from one another as most vehicles combine many of these elements together, but I will do my best to isolate and clearly explain each one below. Number one, dream outcome. Our goal increase. People have deep unchanging desires. This is what marriages are lost over. Wars are fought over and people willingly die for. Our goal is not to create desire. Our goal is simply to channel that desire through our offer and monetization vehicle. The dream outcome is the expression of that feeling and experiences the prospect has envisioned in their mind. It's the gap between their current reality and their dreams. Our goal is to accurately depict that dream back to them so they feel understood and explain how our vehicle will get them there. The dream outcome is simple. It's the getting there where the value gets enhanced or detracted. People generally and our clients specifically want to be perceived as beautiful, to be respected, to be perceived as powerful, to be loved, to increase their status. These are all powerful drivers. But multiple vehicles may accomplish the same thing. Take the desire to be perceived as beautiful. For example, there are a lot of things that touch on this desire. Makeup, anti-aging creams or serums, supplements, shapewear, plastic surgery, fitness. All of these vehicles channel the desire to be perceived as beautiful. And we further unpack the idea of a desire to be beautiful. We see that it may be a surface level declaration of a deeper desire to achieve higher status in one social group. The dream outcome value driver is most prominently used when comparing the relative value between two different desires being satisfied. In general, the dream outcome that most directly increases a prospect's status will be the one they value the most. As such, a prospect may value that entire category of vehicles that satisfy one desire more than another category that satisfies a different desire. For many men, making money is more important than being handsome. Why? Because money drives status for men more than being handsome does. So, in general, they will value all offers that make them money more than offers that help them look good. I once heard Russell Brunson tell a story about this concept. He explained how his wife Colette, at first hearing the status concept, rejected it. She claimed she wasn't driven by status and would never want a Lamborghini. Instead, she favored her minivan, but after talking further, she revealed it was because driving a Lamborghini would decrease her status amongst her mom friends, while driving a minivan would show that she was a good mom. Increase in status. So, it's not about the money, it's about the status. The perceived increase or decrease in relative standing when compared to others socially or professionally. Talk in terms of things your prospect believes will increase their status, and you'll have your prospects drooling. Pro tip: frame benefits in terms of status gained from the viewpoint of others. When writing copy, you can make it that much more powerful 