# Part 9 of 10

 bottom line. Example, 100 sales with five refunds, which is 5% equals 95 net sales. The guarantee offer might get 130 sales, 13 refunds, which would be 10%, and net 117 sales. So 117 over 95 is 1.23x or a 23% increase. Don't be emotional. Just do the math. For a guarantee to not be worth it, the increase in sales would have to be 100% offset by people who refund. So an absolute increase in sales of 5% would need to be offset by an absolute increase in refunds of 5%. But that would be a doubling of refunds, which is unlikely. So for the most part, the stronger the guarantee, the higher the net increase in total purchases, even if the refund rate increases alongside it. Warning. While guarantees can be effective sellers, people who buy because of guarantees can become very shitty customers. A person who only buys because of a guarantee is a person who may not be willing to put in the work necessary to see success with your product or service. In a world where you want to reverse risk and get customers the best outcome, tying your guarantee to the things they need to do to be successful can help all parties. Pro tip: high cost services warning. If you have a tremendous amount of cost associated with your product or service, you will likely want to employ a conditional guarantee or anti-garantee as you'll have to eat the cost of the refund and the cost of fulfilling. Types of guarantees. If you don't achieve X in Y time, we will. What makes a guarantee have power is a conditional statement. If you do not get X result in Y period of time, we will Z. To give a guarantee teeth, you have to decide what you'll do if they don't get the result. Without the or what portion of the guarantee, it sounds weak and diluted. Note, this is what most marketers do. Bad example, we will get you 20 clients guaranteed. Better example, you will get 20 clients in your first 30 days or we will give your money back plus your advertising dollars you spent with us. This is a simple but strong guarantee. Here are the four types of guarantees. I'll go over them in theory and we'll apply them. One, unconditional guarantees. As I stated earlier, there are unconditional, conditional, and anti-garantees. Unconditional are the strongest guarantees. They're basically a trial where they pay first and see if they like it. This gets a lot more people to buy, but you will have some people refund, especially as consumer culture continues to shift towards entitlement and zero accountability. Two, conditional guarantees. Conditional guarantees include terms and conditions to the guarantee. These are the ones that you can get very creative on. In general, you want these to be quote better than money back guarantees because if they're going to make an investment, you want to match their investment psychologically with an equal or higher perceived commitment. These also can have a very powerful effect on getting clients. If you know the key action someone must take in order to be successful, make those part of the conditional guarantee. In a perfect world, 100% of your customers would qualify for a conditional guarantee, but will have achieved their result and therefore would not want to take it. That is an ideal we can all aspire towards. And just FYI, if given the option of getting a refund or getting the outcome they were promised, the vast majority of people would take the outcome. That's why they bought it in the first place. Three, anti-g guarantees. Anti-g guarantees are when you explicitly state all sales are final. You will want to own this position. You must come up with a creative quote reason why the sales are final. Typically, you'll want to show a massive exposure or vulnerability on your part that a consumer could immediately understand and think, "Yes, that makes sense." These types of guarantees are especially important with items that are consumable or massively diminish in value once given. Four, implied guarantees. Implied guarantees are any offer that is a performance-based offer. This comes in many different forms. Revshare, profit share, triggers, ratchets, monetary bonuses, etc. are all examples. The endall concept is the same. If I don't perform, I don't get paid. Unique to this particular structure is it also confers the upside of if I do a great job, I will be very well compensated. These only work in situations where you have transparency for measuring the outcome and trust or control that you will get compensated when you perform. Stacking guarantees. An experienced salesman understands that like bonuses, you can actually stack guarantees. For example, you could give an unconditional 30-day no questions asked guarantee, then on top of that give a conditional triple your money back 90-day guarantee. That would be an example of stacking unconditional with a conditional guarantee. You can also stack two conditional guarantees around different or sequential outcomes. For example, you'll make $10,000 by 60 days, $30,000 by 90 days, as long as you do thing 1, 2, and 3. This future paces the prospect into an outcome they now believe is far more likely since you will be deliberately spelling it out in a conditional guarantee with a timeline for achievement. Doing this shows the prospect you are serious about getting them results and convinced they will achieve what they want. This shifts the burden of risk back from them onto us, a very powerful strategy. Let's go through some different guarantee examples. These are some of my favorites. Guarantee. If you don't achieve X and Y time, we will insert offer. Unconditional no questions asked guarantee. What the client gets. A, a full refund. B, 50% refund. C, refund of ad spend or any ancillary cost. D, you pay for competitors program. E, you return their money plus any additional money on top of it, like an extra $1,000. My take. This is about as simple as it gets. It's also very risky. You put yourself in a situation where if someone does not achieve the results, whether because of your fault or not, you will still be held accountable. Obviously, this is a strong but unoriginal guarantee. You can add conditions, but the more conditions you add, the faster this guarantee loses teeth. Wording. I heard Jason Flinlin, who I referenced earlier, pitch his unconditional guarantee on a webinar, and I thought it was unbelievable. These are 100% his words and not my own. I take no credit for this, but have included it for completeness. I'm not asking you to decide yes or no today. I'm asking you to make a fully informed decision. That is all. The only way you can make a fully informed decision is on the inside, not the outside. So, you get on the inside and see if everything we say on this webinar is true and valuable to you. Then, if it is, that's when you decide to keep it. If it's not for you, no hard feelings. You will then, after signing up at XYZ URL, be able to make a fully informed decision that this isn't for you. But you can't make the decision right now for the same reason you don't buy a house without first looking at the inside of it. And know this, whether it's 29 minutes or 29 days from now, if you ain't happy, I ain't happy for any reason whatsoever. If you want your money back, you can get it because I only want to keep your money if you're happy. All you have to do is go to support xyz.com and tell us, "Give me your money, and you got it." And in short order, our response times to any support requests average 61 minutes over a 24/7 time period. You can only make such a guarantee when you're confident that what you have is the real deal. And I'm fairly confident when you sign up at URL, you're going to get exactly what you need to benefit, right? Insert dream outcome. Pretty crazy guarantee. Pro tip, name your guarantee something cool. If you're going to give a guarantee, spice it up. Instead of using satisfaction or some other vanilla word, describe it more strongly. Generic example, bad. 30-day money back satisfaction guarantee. Creative imagery example one. Good. In 30 days, if you wouldn't jump into sharkinfested waters to get our product back, we will return every dollar you paid. Creative imagery example number two. Great. You'll get our infamous Club a baby seal guarantee. After 30 days of using our services, if you wouldn't club a baby seal to stay on as a customer, you don't have to pay a penny. Unconditional satisfaction based refund guarantee expanded on from above. What the client gets. If at any time they're not satisfied with the level of service they're receiving from you, they can request a refund at any time for the program. My take. Believe it or not, this was my guarantee when I sold weight loss programs. Beside being an irresistible offer, I guaranteed satisfaction. I used the strength of my guarantee to close a lot of deals. Do you think I'd still be in business if I gave a crazy guarantee like that and wasn't good at what I did? Now, I'm not guaranteeing you're going to hit this goal in 6 weeks after all because I can't eat the food for you. But I am guaranteeing that you will get $500 of the value and the service from us to support you. If you don't feel like we gave you that level of service, I'll write you a check the day you tell me we suck. It works perfectly with a best case, worst case close. Best case, you get the body of your dreams and we give you all your money towards staying with us to hit your long-term goal. Worst case, you tell me I suck. I write you a check and you get 6 weeks of free training. Both options are risk- free. But the only thing guaranteed not to help you is walking out of here today. If you're good at what you do, you can use a guarantee like this to push a lot of people over the edge. That line that I just said made me a lot of money. I had two people take me up on that refund out of 4,000 sales in 3 and 1/2 years. It's worth it. satisfaction/noquests asked is the highest form of guarantee. It means we could do everything right and you could still ask for your money back. As long as you know the math, you will typically make up for the refunds in spades with higher and faster closing on the sale side, but you have to be good at fulfilling on your promises. If not, steer clear. I believe this offer works much better in lower ticket situations. It becomes very risky as you go into higher ticket services with higher cost of fulfillment. Pro tip: unconditional versus conditional based on business type. Bigger, broader guarantees work better with lower ticket BTOC businesses. Many people just won't bother taking the time. The higher the ticket, the more businessoriented is, the more you will want to steer towards specific guarantees that may or may not include refunds and may or may not have conditions. Conditional outsized refund guarantee. What the client gets double or triple their money back or a no strings attached payment of XXX or another amount that's far more than what they paid. My take. This is for when you sell something with high margins. And this is a guarantee to add with a consumption condition. That means that they must do a variety of things to qualify for this guarantee. Jason Fladdlin, who I mentioned earlier, did 27 million in a day, recently used an amazing guarantee for a course you sold. He said, "If you buy this course and spend X on advertising in your e-commerce store using the methods here in and don't make money, I will buy your store from you for $25,000, no questions asked." He claimed that an additional $3 million in sales came from this crazy guarantee on a $2997 course. What's more, he only gave 10 of those $25,000 refunds out. So, the refund generated 2.75 million in extra sales. That's what a crazy guarantee does for you. In general, a very strong guarantee like this will definitely drive more sales. This really serves the purpose when you need a lot of stuff to be done by your prospect. And assuming those things are done, there's a low chance of the result not being achieved. Sometimes a guarantee like this can actually get clients better results on top. This guarantee will typically outperform a traditional 30-day money back guarantee in terms of net conversions, sales minus refunds. Conditional service guarantee. What the client gets. You keep working for them free of charge until X is achieved. My take. This is probably my personal favorite guarantee of all time. It essentially guarantees that they will achieve their goal, but it eliminates the element of time. You are never at risk for losing the money. The guarantee is around the outcome. To add further flavor to it, you can make this guarantee conditional on them doing key actions linked with the success. Setting up a web page, attending calls, showing up to workouts, weighing in, reporting data, etc. Real talk. Since I have been advising businesses to use this particular guarantee, I have yet to have a single person say a client took them up on it. Realistically, if someone actually does everything you ask them to do and doesn't achieve the result by the time you said, one of two things usually happens. One, seeing your client's commitment, you happily keep working with them until they achieve the desired result. Two, it gets dropped. Your client is very likely close to the goal, which means they're satisfied. Also, it's likely the sales conversation with the guarantee was months earlier. What may have been important in the sales conversation is a distant memory now replaced by their affection towards you and your business. Conditional modified service guarantee. What the client gets, you give them another y-long period of service or access to your product or services free of charge. Generally, why should give them at least twice the duration. My take. This is like the service guarantee, but it ties a specific duration to your extended work or involvement. So, instead of being on the hook forever, you're only on the hook for the additional Y period of time. I've seen it work magically and keep the business on the hook for a finite period of time, which may be an easier place for you to start before doing an allout service guarantee like the above. Conditional credit based guarantee. What the client gets? You give them back what they paid, but in a credit towards any service you offer. My take. This is best used during an upsell process to seal the deal on a service they are unsure they will like. They already like what they have and you are trying to sell them on more of that. Worst case, they can apply to the thing they already like so it maintains goodwill with the customer. Conditional personal service guarantee what the client gets. You personally work with them oneonone free of charge until they reach X objective or result. My take. This is absolutely one of the strongest guarantees in existence. It's like a service guarantee on crack. You will definitely want to add conditions to this. For example, they must respond back in 24 hours. They must use the product you tell them to. They must XYZ. Only if they do that will you keep working with them oneonone. This is especially powerful as you scale and become more edified as a business owner. Can you imagine for a moment if one of my sales people said, "Alex will personally work with you until your offer converts." Right? It would work. It would also be a nightmare. So, I would probably put contingencies like, "Provided you've already spent $10,000 on your existing offer using our offer structure, the offer you ran for lead generation, and it was a free offer." These are things that would make it unlikely to not succeed. If for some reason they hadn't with those stipulations in place, I could probably fix the problem in 10 minutes just looking at it. Conditional hotel plus airfare perks guarantee what the client gets. If you don't receive value, we will reimburse your product and your hotel and airfare. My take. This is technically a refund of ancillary cost from our first example. I just love it a lot for workshops and inerson experiences. Normally the event would cost more than the hotel and airfare. So it's like adding an extra $1,000 to a guarantee but way more tangible. It's original enough that people like it. Conditional wage payment guarantees. What the client gets. You offer to pay their hourly rate, whatever that may be, if they don't find your call or session with them valuable. My take. This is also an ancillary cost guarantee, just a very original one. If someone ever actually asks for the wage payment, just ask them for their tax return and divide it by 1,960, aka the number of working hours at 40 hours a week per year. But no one asking for a refund will actually do that. So, you never actually have to give out one of these refunds like ever. Kind of cool. Conditional release of service guarantee. What the client gets, you let them out of their contract free of charge. My take. This voids a commitment or cancellation fee. If you have a business that has enforceable commitments, contracts, or clauses, this can be a powerful guarantee. Better yet, if you're in a business that does not enforce your contracts, then you have nothing to lose by adding this guarantee. Conditional delayed second payment guarantee. What the client gets. You won't build them again until after they make or get their first outcome. Example, lose your first 5 pounds, make your first sale, get to your website live, etc. My take. I like this a lot, especially if you have a very systematized process for getting the first result. It gets the prospect thinking in fact action terms and gets them moving. It will also focus your team on activating your client. This is a great one when you know what metric or action drives activation, aka a predicting indicator of long-term retention of a client. I've successfully used this guarantee loads of times. Conditional first outcome guarantee. What the client gets, you continue to pay their ancillary cost, ad spend, hotel, etc. until they reach their first outcome. Example, example. If you don't make your first sale in 14 days, we will pay for your ad spend until you do. My take, just like the delayed second payment, just center it around a different cost. I personally like this setup a lot. It keeps everyone focused on getting that first dollar over the bridge. Once that one comes across, the second comes soon after. Anti-g guarantee. All sales are final. What the client gets access to super exclusive very valuable service or product. Likely this is a very powerful thing that once seen cannot be unseen or once used cannot be taken away. Example, a line of code to improve your checkout experience on a website. Once someone received the code, they could try and use it without paying you. Or a series of opening messages for picking up girls or opening sentences for messaging cold prospects. These are things that are very valuable but incredibly easy to steal after they've been seen or understood. My take. This can enhance the persuasiveness of a sale and the value of the product or service. It essentially implies that the client is going to use it and see an immense benefit thereby exposing the business to vulnerability. It acts as a damaging admission. We have an all sales or final policy but that is because our product is so exclusive and so powerful that once it's used it cannot be unused. Since it is so standard to have some sort of guarantee, not having one is also attentionworthy. So instead of being wishy-washy, lean into the fact that this thing works so well and is so easy to copy, you must make all sales final. They'll believe you even more if you take this position. We're going to show you our proprietary process that we are using right now to generate leads in our business, our funnels, ads, metrics, etc. We're going to be exposing the inner workings of our business and as a result, all sales are final. Note strong reason why is needed here. Just make one up that sounds compelling. The more you can show real exposure, the more effective this will be. Anti-g guarantees can also work very well with high ticket products and services that require a lot of work or customization. If you're the type of customer who needs a guarantee before taking a jump, then you're not the type of person we want to work with. We want motivated self-starters who can follow instructions and not looking for a way out before they even begin. If you're not serious, don't buy it. But if you are, boy, are you going to make a killing. From these examples, you should get the idea. Implied guarantees, performance models, rev shares, and profit sharing. Performance, a only pay me xxx per sale or y per sh or xx per pound lost. Rev share a 10% of topline revenue, 20% profit share, 25% of revenue growth from baseline. Profit share, x% of profit, y% of gross profit. Ratchets, 10% if over X, 20% if over Y, 30% of over Z. Bonuses and triggers. I get X when Y occurs. What the client gets. If you do not perform, they do not have to pay. If you perform, your compensation has been determined based on an agreement decided upon before you begin working. My take. Performance, revshare, and profit share aren't guarantees per se, but for all intents and purposes, they are. This is an implied guarantee whenever you enter a revshare or performance partnership. If you don't make money, you don't have to pay me. In my opinion, this is one of, if not the most desirable setups. First, because it makes you accountable to your client's results. Second, it weeds out low performers. Perfect alignment between client and service provider fosters collaboration and a long-term relationship. I'm a big fan. The drawbacks are tracking and collection. So, if you can find a way around that, you've hit a gold mine. This is a part of the offer we teach our agencies who use our software. We help them switch from retainer model to a performance model and wrap that into a grand slam offer, the one I walked through earlier. I've seen countless agencies go from 20K a month to 200K a month in a matter of a few months using this guarantee. You can also pair a rev share or performance setup with a minimum. It would be like saying we get the greater of $1,000 or 10% of revenue generated. So if the client doesn't generate money because of whatever reason, this at least covers your cost of services, etc. or saying we get $1,000 for the first 3 months, then after that it switches to 100% performance. This would be the ideal setup if it takes a long time to get going. These types of offers work well when you have quantifiable outcomes. The stronger, of course, is no payment without performance. Create your own winning guarantee. Reversing risk is the number one way to increase conversion of an offer. Experienced marketers spend as much time crafting their guarantees as the deliverables themselves. It's that important. I have personally used all the guarantees listed above except for the hotel and phone call one which I just liked and saw, but you can come up with your own. The key is to identify a client's biggest fear, pain, and perceived obstacle. What do they not want to have happen if they pay you? What are they most afraid of? Reverse their fears into a guarantee. Think of time, emotion, outside cost associated with any program. The more specific and creative the guarantee is, the better. That being said, guarantees are enhancers. They can enhance the magnetism or attraction of any offer, but they cannot make a business. If a guarantee is used to cover up a poor sales team or poor product, it will backfire to lots of refunds. No bueno. My advice, start selling service-based guarantees or setting up some sort of performance partnerships. This will make all sales final so you have no fear from refunds. And most importantly, it will commit you to your customers results and keep you honest. From there, either keep that guarantee in scale, which is perfectly fine, or move up the food chain to less restrictive guarantees to increase volume. We now have a core offer built and guarantees chosen. Next up, now all we have to do is put a bow in this puppy and actually name it. Naming an offer correctly determines how well your advertising converts, how big of a response you get from outbound emails, cold calls, and texts, and how many inbound responses you get from organic comments. It matters. That being said, I will show you how to generate unlimited names or wrapping paper for your offer. That way, it never fatigues no matter how small your market may be. This is the key to evergreen lead generation. Free gift number nine. Create a winning guarantee with me. Guarantees can make or break businesses. They are like dynamite. They can be incredibly powerful if in the hands of an expert. If you want, go to acquisition.com/training/offers and select creating guarantees to watch a short video tutorial so you can start using this in your business to make more sales ASAP. I also made a free guarantee checklist for you to use. It's absolutely free. You can go grab it. Um, lots of love. See you in the next chapter. Chapter 14, enhancing the offer. Naming implicit egotism effect. We are generally drawn to the things and people that most resemble us. Magic headline formula. Like the tree that falls in the forest that no one hears, having a grand 