# Part 3 of 10

f they made nothing, neither did he. It was pure gain for the papers and a great offer. But despite having a great offer and natural sales ability, his business began to decline. Being a high achieving entrepreneur, he tried all different angles to solve the problem, but nothing worked. He couldn't figure out what the issue was. It was hard for me to see him struggle with this because I think Lloyd is much smarter than I am. And the answer seemed obvious to me. But watching him go through this has been a lesson that I have taken with me for life. Before I reveal it, what do you think the problem was? Product, offer, marketing and sales, his team. Let's break it down. It wasn't his product. That was great. It wasn't his offer. He had a zerorisk revshare model. It wasn't his sales skills. He was a natural salesman. So then what was the problem? He was selling to newspapers. His market was shrinking by 25% every single year. He had looked at all the angles except for the most obvious one. Finally, after years of fighting an uphill battle in his market, he realized his market was the source of his problems and decided to downsize his company. Don't worry, the story has a second half. To illustrate the power of a market, as soon as CO hit, Lloyd pivoted. He started an automated mask manufacturing company. With new technology, he brought the cost per mask down below what people could buy them from for China. Within 5 months, he was doing millions per month. Same entrepreneur, different market. He applied his same skill set to a business he had zero experience in and was able to win. That's the power of picking the right market. I give you that story as a cautionary tale. Your market matters. Lloyd is a very smart human. He's obviously very capable, but we can all be blinded as entrepreneurs because we don't like to give up. We are so accustomed to solving impossible problems that we will keep ramming our heads into the wall. We hate quitting. But the reality is that everyone is affected by their market. So how do you pick the right market? What to look for? There is a market in desperate need of your abilities. You need to find it. And when you do, you will capitalize all while wondering what took you so long. Don't be romantic about your audience. Serve the people who can pay you what you're worth. And remember that picking a market, like anything, is always our choice. So choose wisely. In order to sell anything, you need demand. We are not trying to create demand. We are trying to channel it. That is a very important distinction. If you don't have a market for your offer, nothing that follows will work. This entire book sits at top the assumption that you have at least a quote normal market, which I define as a market that is growing at the same rate as the marketplace and that has common unmet needs that fall into one of three categories. Improved health, increased wealth, or improved relationships. For example, Lloyd could have gone through this entire book and nothing in here would have worked for him. Why? Because he would be targeting newspapers, a dying market. That being said, having a great market is an advantage. But you can be in a normal market that's growing at an average rate and still make crazy money. Every market I've been in has been a normal market. You just don't actually want to be selling icedos. Here are the basic tenants of what I look for in markets. Let's run them before we return to the offer. When picking markets, I look for four indicators. One, pain. Two, purchasing power. Three, easy to target. Four, growing. One, massive pain. They must not want but desperately need what I am offering. Pain can be anything that frustrates people about their lives. Being broke is painful. A bad marriage is painful. Waiting in line at the grocery store is painful. Back pain, ugly smile pain, overweight pain. Humans suffer a lot. So for us entrepreneurs, endless opportunity abounds. The degree of pain will be proportional to the price you will be able to charge. More on this in the value equation chapter. When they hear the solution to their pain and inversely what their life would look like without this pain, they should be drawn to your solution. I have a saying that I used to train sales teams. The pain is the pitch. If you can articulate the pain a prospect is feeling accurately, they will almost always buy what you are offering. A prospect must have a painful problem for us to solve and charge money for our solution. Pro tip, the point of good writing is for the reader to understand. The point of good persuasion is for the prospect to feel understood. Two, purchasing power. A friend of mine had a very good system for helping people improve their resumes to get more job interviews. He was great at it, but try as he did, he could not get people to pay for his services. Why? Because they were all unemployed. This again may seem obvious. But he thought, "These people are easy to target. They're in massive pain. There are plenty of them and it's constantly adding new people. This is a great market." He just forgot a crucial point. Your audience needs to be able to afford the service you're charging them for. Make sure your targets have the money or access to the amount of money needed to buy your services at the prices you require to make it worth your time. Three, easy to target. Let's say you have a perfect market, but no way of finding the people who comprise it. Well, making a grand sum offer will be difficult. I make my life easier by looking for easy to target markets. Examples of this are avatars that have associations they belong to, mailing lists, social media groups, channels they all watch, etc. If our potential customers are gathered together somewhere, then we can market to them. If searching them out, however, is like finding needles in a haststack, then it can be very difficult to get your offer in front of any potentially interested eyes. This point is tactical. It is reality, not theoretical. For instance, you may want to serve rich doctors, but if your ads are being displayed to nursing students, your offer will fall on deaf ears, no matter how good it is. Main point, you want to make sure you can target your ideal audience easily. Clarifying point, there is no issue wanting to serve rich doctors. They are easy to find. This is just illustrative that your promotions must be served to the right audience. Four, growing. Growing markets are like a tailwind. They make everything move forward faster. Declining markets are like headwinds. They make all efforts harder. This was Lloyd's example. Newspapers had three of four makings of a great market. Lots of pain. Purchasing power easy to target. But they were shrinking fast. No matter how hard he tried, the entire marketplace was fighting against him. Business is hard enough and markets move quickly. So you might as well find a good market to give you a tailwind to make the process easier. Making this real. Health, wealth, relationships. There are three main markets that will always exist. Health, wealth, and relationships. The reason that those will always exist is that there will always be tremendous pain when you lack them. There's always demand for solutions to these core human pains. The goal is to find a smaller subgroup within those larger buckets that is growing, has the buying power, and is easy to target, the other three variables. So, if I were a relationship expert trying to find my avatar, I'd rather focus on second half of life relationship coaching for old-timers than helping college students in relationships. Why? Because senior citizens who are alone are likely suffering more pain as they are near their deaths, have more buying power, money, and are easier to find. Targeting. Lastly, at the time of this writing, there are more people turning 65 each year than turning 20, aka growing. That is the idea. Think about what you are good at in regards to health, wealth, and relationships. Then think about who might value your service the most, aka is in the most pain, has the buying power to pay what you want, money, and can be found easily. Targeting. As long as those three criteria are strong, and the market isn't shrinking, you'll be in good shape. But how important your success is finding a quote great market versus a quote normal market versus a quote bad market? The answer, it actually depends. Let me explain. Order of importance, three levers on success. It's unlikely you're going to be in a dying market like the newspaper example. It's also unlikely you're going to be selling toilet paper in co a buying frenzy. You'll likely be in a normal market and that's totally okay. There is a fortune to be made within normal markets. My single point here is that you can't be in a bad market or nothing will work. That being said, here's the simplest illustration of the order of importance between markets, offers, and persuasion skills. Starving crowd is more important than your offer strength, which is more important than your persuasion skills. Let's say you were to rate these elements on a scale of great, normal, and bad. You could essentially move down the line from left to right in order of importance. A quote great rating on a higher order piece overpowers anything else lower on the priority scale. A quote normal rating moves the buck to the next part of the equation. A quote bad stops the equation unless a grade from a higher order component nullifies it. Here are a few examples. Example one, even if you had a bad offer and are bad at persuasion, you're going to make money if you're in a great market. If you're on the corner hawking hot dogs when the bar closes up at 2 a.m. with mobs of starving drunk folks, you're going to sell out of your hot dogs. Example two, most of us, if you are in a normal market and have a grand slam offer, you can make tons of money even if you're bad at persuasion. This is most people reading this book. That's why I wrote it to help you maximize your success by learning to really build a grand slam offer. Example three. Let's say you're in a normal market and have a normal offer. In order to be massively successful, you would have to be exceptionally good at persuasion. Then and only then would you succeed with your persuasive skills serving as the fulcrum for your success. Heck, many empires have been built by exceptional persuaders. It's just the hardest path to follow and requires the most effort and learning. Nailing your offer helps you shortcut this path to success. Otherwise, you will just have a normal business that takes exceptional skill to be successful. Nothing wrong with that, but probably not what you signed up for. Commit to the niche. I have a saying when coaching entrepreneurs on picking their target market. Don't make me niche slap you. Too often a new entrepreneur half-heartedly tries one offer in one market, doesn't make a million dollars, then mistakenly thinks this is a bad market. Most time that's not actually the case. They just haven't found a grand slam offer yet to apply to that market. They think I'll switch from helping dentists to helping chiropractors. That's it. When in reality, both of those are normal markets and represent billions of dollars of revenue. Either would work, just not both. You must pick one. No one can serve two masters. I have coined the term niche lap to remind entrepreneurs in my communities to commit once they pick. All businesses and all markets have unpleasant characteristics. The grass is never greener once you get to the other side. If you keep hopping from niche to niche hoping that the market will solve your problems, you deserve to be niche slapped. You must stick with whatever you pick long enough to have trial and error. You will fail. In fact, you will fail until you succeed. But you will fail far longer if you keep changing who you market to because you must start over from the beginning each time. So pick then commit. Riches earn the niches. The other reason to commit to the niche is because of how much more you will make. Simply put, niching down will make you far more money. Author note when to broaden. Advice for most people. For most, if you are under $10 million per year, niching down will make you more money. After that, it will depend on how narrow the niche is or what is called TAM, total addressable market. A business can only grow to meet the total addressable market. That being said, for most people, getting to 10 million per year is already a4% achievement. Only one in 250 businesses achieve this. So, for 99.6% of readers below $10 million per year, it's almost always easier to serve fewer clients more narrowly. But if you want to go beyond that, you may, depending on the size of your TAM, have to broaden your audience by going up market, down market, or into an adjacent market where your existing services can provide value. For context, many companies expanded to $30 million plus per year serving a single niche. Chiropractors, gyms, plumbers, solar, roofers, salon owners, etc. If you were at 1 million or $3 million per year thinking you have capped and must expand, you are wrong. You just need to be better. When I truly grasped how much more profit I was leaving on the table, it changed my life. It was what took me from doing acquisition for anyone to teaching it to a specific avatar. In my instance, I decided on a micro gym owner with a 100 members, assigned lease, at least one employee, and wanted to help clients lose weight. That's pretty specific compared to quote small business owners or my favorite quote anyone who will pay me, which is common. And I was very specific in that business, Gym Launch. We turn down and still do anyone who is not the avatar. That means no personal trainers, no online coaches, etc. Could I have helped them? Of course, I could have. I mean, heck, the majority of our portfolio is comprised of non- gym companies. But in order to maintain product focus and high converting messaging, knowing exactly who the product was for was a gamecher. It helped us know exactly who we were speaking to at all times and exactly whose problems we were solving. But simplicity and ease may not be enough to sway you. So, let me illustrate why honing in on one niche will make you more money. Reason, you can literally charge a 100 times more for the exact same product. Dan Kennedy was the first person to illustrate this for me and I will do my best to pass on the torch to you in these pages. Niching product pricing example product and then price. Time management product price $19. Time management for sales professionals price $99. Time management for outbound B2B sales. Price $499. Time management for outbound B2B power tools and gardening sales reps. Price $1,997. Dan Kennedy taught me this and it changed my life forever. Let's say you sold a generic course on time management. Unless you were some massive time management guru with a compelling or unique story, it would be unlikely it would turn into anything significant. What do you think? quote yet another and quote time management course is valued at $19, $29. Sure, nothing to write home about. Let's just say $19 for illustration sake. Now, we shall unleash the power of niche pricing in various stages on your product. So, let's imagine you make the product more specific, keeping the same principles, and call it time management for sales professionals. All of a sudden, this course is for a more specific type of person. We could tie their increase to even one more sale or one more deal. and it would be worth more. But there are a lot of sales people, so this might be a $99 product. Neat, but we can do better. So, let's go down another level of niching and call our product time management for B2B outbound sales reps. Following the same principles of specificity, now we know our salespeople probably have very experienced deals and commissions. A single deal would easily net the salesman $500 or more, so it would be easy to justify a $4.99 price tag. This is already a 25x increase in price for almost an identical product. I could stop here, but I'm going one step further. Let's just niche down one last level. Time management for B2B outbound power tools and gardening sales reps. Boom. Think about it for a second. If you were a Power Tools outbound sales rep, you would think to yourself, "This is made exactly for me." And would happily fork over maybe a,000 or $2,000 for a time management program that could help you achieve your goal. The actual pieces of the program may be the same as the generic $19 course, but since they have been applied and the sales messaging could speak so much to this avatar, they will find it far more compelling and get more value from it in a real way. This concept applies to anything you decide to do. You want to be the guy who services this type of person or solves this type of problem. and even more niched. I solve this type of problem for this specific type of person in this unique counterintuitive way that reverses their deepest fear. That's why a fitness program for generic weight loss might be priced only at $19, while a fitness program designed and marketed only to shift nurses might be priced at $1,997, even though the core of the program is likely similar. Eat less, move more. End result: The market matters. Your niche matters. And if you can sell the same product for 100 times the price, should you? I'll let you decide. Summary points. The purpose of this chapter is to reinforce two things. First, don't pick bad markets. Normal markets are fine. Great markets are great. Second, once you pick, commit until you figure it out. If you try 100 offers, I promise you will succeed. Most people never try anything. Others fail once, then give up. It takes resilience to succeed. Stop personalizing. It's not about you. If your offer doesn't work, it doesn't mean you suck. It means your offer sucks. Big difference. You only suck if you stop trying. So try again. You'll never become world class if you stop after a failed attempt. If you find a crazy good market, ride it and ride it hard. If you pair a grand slam offer with a crazy market, you'll likely never need to work again. Seriously. So have this skill set, the ability to accurately assess markets by taking into account pain, money, targeting, and growth in your back pocket so that when lightning strikes, you can make sure it strikes twice. Having established how to nail a market, let's get back to pricing. The first step to making crazy money is charging premium prices. Free gift number two. Bonus tutorial. Winning markets. If you want to know more about how I pick markets and find niches that are profitable, go to acquisition.com/training/offers. Then watch winning markets for a short video tutorial. I've also included a free checklist to see how your market or niche measures up. It's absolutely free. Enjoy. Chapter 5. Pricing. Charge what it's worth. Charge as high a price as you can say out loud without cracking a smile. Dan Kennedy. January 2019. All I could see was black. My eyes felt glued shut. I was awake, but the fatigue in my temples felt like a 5 lb weight was duct taped to my skull, dragging my eyelids back down. I had to concentrate forcibly to open them. The details of the dimly lit room beamed in. I rolled over to the edge of the hotel room bed, feeling each and every muscle in my body as my weight shifted. Hunched on my side, I could see my clothes scattered on the floor. I was so beat the night before that I didn't even remember taking them off. I had just finished a 5-day gauntlet of keynote after keynote presentation. 2 days of presentations for our highest level clients, immediately followed by spending 2 days planning with our entire company, 135 plus employees. I had missed a FaceTime call from my father that day before. I didn't have anything on my agenda for the morning, so I quickly got up, slid into a hoodie and some sweats, and walked into the hallway to call him back. After the initial pleasantries, he immediately dove into why he was calling. Parental concern. I saw the picture you posted of all your clients, he said, but in an unusually concerned tone. I thought the event was for all your highest paying clients. I didn't know it was a big event. It looked like you had a thousand people there. Alone in the hallway and struggling to shake the heavy weight of exhaustion still. I tried to gauge where his concern was coming from and what he was getting at. I'd explained this to him already. It was only for our highest level clients. That wasn't all of our clients. I said just the ones who pay $42,000 a year are gym lords. Like I told you, every single person in that picture paid you $42,000. He sounded almost frightened at the idea. Yeah, wild, right? My voice was from days of speaking and thousands of 20 second conversations. Is it legal what you're doing? He asked. Wow, that escalated quickly, I thought to myself. Do they know you're paying you that much? Yes, it's legal, and of course they know. It's not like I'm magically siphoning money. That's a lot of money. I hope what you're giving them is worth it. I contemplated whether it was worth the effort to dive into this or just ignore it. But knowing this was going to be a thing, I took a deep breath and began to explain. If I made you $239,000 extra this year, would you pay me $42,000? I asked using $239,000 because it was the average increase in topline revenue of a gym using our system for 11 months. For sure, he said, I mean, if I knew I was going to make that back, but what would I have to do? About 15 hours a week of work. And how long would it take me to make the $239,000? 11 months. And how much of the $42,000 would I have to pay you upfront? Nothing. Just pay me as you start making money using the system. I watched it click. My dad got it. Oh. He said, "Well, then yeah, I would do it." And that's why they do it, too. Making shitloads of money breaks people's minds. It literally stretches their mind so far past what they can believe is possible, they assume you're doing something wrong or illegal. They literally can't even. Why? because they think to themselves, they can't be that much smarter than me or work that much harder than me. So, how is it possible for them to make a thousand times more than me? Enough money that it would literally take 10 lifetimes for me to make what they make in a year. In the 3 years leading up to me writing this book, I took home over $1.2 million per month in profit every single month. That's more than the compensation for the CEOs of Ford, McDonald's, Motorola, Yahoo combined every year as a kid in his 20s. It angers those who believe that life isn't fair. It confuses others who cannot comprehend and believe that there must have been a mistake. And it inspires a select few who are bound for greatness. I hope that you are in the last category because that is who I am writing this for. You can do this. You just need to learn how and I'm going to show you. price to value discrepancy. Quote, I hope what you're giving them is worth it. End quote. Those words would probably sting for most, but when my dad said them to me, I just knew he didn't understand the value we were providing. What I want to show you is how to create and communicate value, aka the worthness of an offer. In order to understand how to make a compelling offer, you must understand value. The reason people buy anything is to get a deal. They believe that what they are getting value is worth more than what they are given in exchange for it. Price. The moment the value they receive dips below what they are paying, they stop buying from you. This price to value discrepancy is what you need to avoid at all costs. After all, as Warren Buffett said, price is what you pay, value is what you get. The simplest way to increase the gap between price to value is by lowering the price. It's also most of the time the wrong decision for the business. Getting people to buy is not the objective of a business. Making money is, and lowering price is a one-way road to destruction for most. You can only go down to zero, but you can go infinitely high in the other direction. So unless you have a revolutionary way of decreasing your cost 1/10enth compared to your competition, don't compete on price. As Dan Kennedy said, there's no strategic benefit to being the second cheapest in the marketplace, but there is for being the most expensive. So, the goal of our grand slam offer will be to get more people to say yes at a higher price by increasing our value to price discrepancy. In other words, we will raise our price only after we have sufficiently increased our value. This way, they still get a great deal. Think buying $100,000 worth of value for only $10,000. It's money at a discount. Free gift number three, bonus tutorial and free downloads. Charge what it's worth. If you want to know how I create value discrepancies for B2B or B TOC products, go to acquisition.com/training/offers course and then watch charge what it's worth for a short video tutorial. My goal is to gain your trust and deliver value in advance. As such, it's absolutely free. Enjoy. Why you should charge so much it hurts. Most business owners are not competin