# Part 2 of 10

work 100 hours a week to avoid working 40. Crappy trade. My guess is that if you're anything like me, you signed up for something better. Keep an open mind. The contents of this book, if executed, can transform your business fast. It's okay if you're not into money, numbers, or business models. I've done all that work for you. I'm walking through the process step by step in these pages. I'm going to explain each of the two big problems we touched on above in detail, including why they don't work. Then, I'm going to show you the solutions. And to wrap this adventure up, I'll explain how to enhance value to maximize how much you make per customer so that you can outmarket everyone and stack cash. We use this offer model for every niche we work with. Cyros, dentists, gyms, agencies, plumbers, roofers, dog walkers, physical products, software, brick-andmortar stores, and so many more. And it's amazing how fast things can improve with each and every one of them when they use this framework. What's in it for you? I've made every dumb business mistake in the book. Now, you can learn from my embarrassing, brutal, multi-million dollar fuckups without having to suffer the same pain yourself. Building these businesses has been a very hard and emotional journey for me. I wouldn't trade these experiences for the world. However, if this book helps just one entrepreneur avoid suffering as I did, keep their business open, or accomplish their dreams, it will all be worth it. If you're willing to exchange the time it takes to watch two episodes of your favorite TV show, and really study this book, and if you implement even a single offer component, I can guarantee you will add more clients and more dollars to your bottom line. Reading this book and taking it to heart will be the single greatest return on time for your business. Nothing else will allow you to do what this book can do in the same amount of time. That is a promise. As a side benefit, implementing a new offer is about one of the easiest things to do in a business. So, you really can do this. This isn't some management practice or culture building hoodoo. This is the real how you sell [ __ ] for lots of money type stuff. What's in it for me? I give all these materials, this book, the accompanying course, and all other books and courses, which you can find at acquisition.com for free or at cost in order to help as many people as humanly possible make more and serve more. I've made these with the intention of providing more value than you can get from a $1,000 course, any $30,000 coaching program, and hilariously more than $200,000 college degree. And I do this because although I could sell these materials in that format, I just don't want to. I've made my money doing this stuff, not teaching how to do this stuff. contrary to most of the marketing community at large. So, my model is different. I'll explain more in a second. That being said, there are two key arch types I'm trying to provide value to with my published materials. For arch type number one, entrepreneurs under $3 million per year in revenue. My goal is to help you get there and earn your trust. Try just a couple of tactics from this book, watch them work, then try a few more, watch them work, and so on. The more you see results in your own business, the better. Once you succeed, you'll become archetype number two. Entrepreneurs at minimum between 3 to 10 million a year in revenue. once you get there or if that's you now I'd be honored to invest in your business and help you cross 30, 50 or even 100 million plus. I don't sell coaching masterminds or courses or anything like that. Instead, I have a portfolio of companies I take equity interest in. I use the infrastructure resources and teams of all my companies to fasttrack their growth. But don't believe me yet. We just met. If you're curious, my business model is simple, just like the four-piece pyramid logo of acquisition.com. Step one, provide value at no cost, far in excess to what the rest of the marketplace charges for. Step two, have entrepreneurs use the materials that actually work and make money helping more folks. Step three, earn the trust of the hyperexeutor business owners who use the frameworks to scale their businesses to $3 to $10 million per year and beyond. Step four, invest in those businesses to make more impact at scale while helping every single other entrepreneur for free. If you look carefully, the process reverses engineer success. I think it's pretty cool. Here's how. I know these business owners can execute the frameworks I have without handholding and therefore would be very likely to succeed with the next set of frameworks. Getting to 30 million, 50 million, 100 million looks different than getting to 3 to 10 million. They know my style works for them because it already has. So, we operate on shared trust. I trust they can execute and they trust that our stuff works again because it already has all while helping everyone else vote for you. So, it allows me to preemptively avoid failures and dramatically increase success likelihood. Let me show you how much. At the time of this writing, every business I have started since March of 2017 has achieved a $1.5 million per month run rate at least. According to the Small Business Administration, the odds of a single business even achieving $10 million a year or $833,000 per month, which is almost half of what I just said, are 4% or 1 in 250. Having it happen four times in a row is4% time4% time4% time4%. Or in other words very very very low probability that it was luck. As such I can say with conviction that we know how to recreate success using the frameworks I share over and over again. They work because they are timeless business principles. I actively visualize every day how it felt to wake up in the middle of the night in cold sweats wondering how I'd make payroll. That gut-wrenching meditation keeps me hungry as an entrepreneur, but also grateful for my security and peace of mind. I want the latter for you and anyone else who gives a damn about what they do. Fair enough. Cool. So, let's get to it. Basic outline of this book. This book is intended to be a resource. As a resource, I mean it will be something that you read through, then keep in your toolbox, coming back to it again and again. And says, "Never memorize anything you can look up." Business is not a spectator sport. You're not cramming for some midterm. And you're not some limpristed philosopher. You do work. And to work, you need tools. This, my friend, is one of those tools. General outline. Section one, how we got here. You just finished it. Section two, pricing. How to charge lots of money for stuff. Section three, value. Create your offer. How to make something so good people line up to buy. Section four, enhancing your offer. How to make your offer so good they feel stupid saying no. Section five, next steps. How to make this happen in the real world. For free courses and books so good they grow your business without your consent. Go to acquisition.com. Section two, pricing. How to charge lots of money for stuff. Chapter 3, pricing the commodity problem. Think different. Steve Jobs. Grow or die is a core tenant at our companies. We believe every person, every company, and every organism is either growing or dying. Maintenance is a myth. What this means is if your company isn't growing, it's dying. This is a sobering reality for many of us. I learned the hard way and my business suffered for a long time because of it. Let me explain. The market is continuously growing. The stock market grows at 9% per year. If we aren't growing at 9% per year, we are falling behind. Maintenance, in the most generic sense, would be 9% per year growth year-over-year. Furthermore, if you're in a growing marketplace, then you might have to grow at 20 to 30% per year just to keep up or risk falling behind. So, you can see how maintenance is a myth. So, then what does it take to grow? Thankfully, just three simple things. One, get more customers. Two, increase their average purchase value. Three, get them to buy more times. That's it. Sure, there are lots of ways to acquire customers and zillions of ways to increase order value and purchase frequency, but simply put, that's it. Those are the only three ways to grow. Example, if I sell 10 clients a month and a client is worth $1,000 to me over their lifetime through average card value times number of average purchases, then my business will cap at $10,000 per month, aka 10 * $1,000. 10 new clients per month times $1,000 lifetime value equals $10,000 per month in max revenue. If you want to grow, you've either got to sell more clients every month while maintaining suitable margins or have them be worth more by increasing the profit per purchase or number of times they buy. That's it. Author note, only two ways to grow. To simplify this concept even more, there really only two ways to grow. Get more customers and increase each customer's value. Increasing each customer's value has two sub buckets. one, increasing profit per purchase. Two, increasing the number of times they buy. For the purpose of this book, I highlight both of those subbuckets as individual growth paths. I did this because I think it will be easier to understand the money models that will come in volume 3. All three, getting more customers, increasing their average purchase value, and getting them to buy more are repeated themes in this book. But if you seek simplicity, both increasing average purchase value, and increasing the number of times a customer buys results in one outcome, increasing each customer's value. business terms. Before going any further and to better flesh out the concepts that will follow, we should take a second to define and better understand some key business concepts. When I stood in that Las Vegas penthouse in my Beastmo t-shirt, I was clueless about such terms. Let me help you be better than, well, me. Gross profit. The revenue minus the direct cost of servicing an additional customer. If I sell lotion for $10 and it cost me $2, my gross profit is $8 or 80%. If I sell agency services for $1,000 per month and it cost me $100 per month in labor to run that client's advertising, then my gross profit is $900 or 90%. Note, this is not net profit. Net profit is what's left over after all expenses are paid, not just the direct cost of fulfillment. Lifetime value. The gross profit acrewed over the entire lifetime of a customer. This is gross profit multiplied by the number of purchases an average customer will make over their lifetime. Using the example above, if the average customer stays 5 months and they pay $1,000 per month while it cost me $100 per month to fulfill, then their lifetime value is $4,500. Here's the breakdown. Revenue equals $1,000 per month time gross margin time 5 month equals $4,500 lifetime value or LTV. Note that the indirect costs like admin, software, rent, etc. are not included in LTV. Note, you will find different definitions for lifetime value depending on the source. The biggest difference is that some sources only count total revenue while others focus on gross profit over the lifespan. I focus on gross profit. You may also see me refer to this as LTGP or lifetime gross profit in other texts just for clarity sake. Value driven versus price driven purchases. This book was intended to be a textbook for any business that wants to grow. I've spent and continue to spend hundreds of hours on calls and in-person meetings consulting entrepreneurs on crafting their offers. I've seen the ones that take off into the stratosphere and those that fizzle. Having a grand slam offer makes it almost impossible to lose. But why? What gives it such an impact? In short, having a grand slam offer helps with all three of the requirements for growth. getting more customers, getting them to pay more, and getting them to do so more times. How, you ask? It allows you to differentiate yourself from the marketplace. In other words, it allows you to sell your product based on value, not on price. Commoditized equals price-driven purchases, aka a race to the bottom. Differentiated equals a valuedriven purchase, aka selling a category of one with no comparison. Yes, market matters, which I'll expound on in the next chapter. Commodity, as I define it, is a product available from many places. For that reason, it's prone to purchases based on price instead of value. If all products are equal, then the cheapest one is the most valuable by default. In other words, if a prospect compares your product to another and thinks, "These are pretty much the same. I'll buy the cheaper one." Then they commoditized you. How embarrassing. But really, it's one of the worst experiences a valuedriven entrepreneur can have. This is a massive problem for the entrepreneur because commodities are valued at the point of market efficiency. This means that the marketplace drives the price point down through competition until the margins are just enough to keep the lights on, just enough to become a slave to their business. The business makes just enough to justify the owner waiting anxiously for things to turn around. And by the time that lie is realized, they are in too deep to pivot, at least until now. A grand slam offer solves this problem. But what does a grand slam offer do? All right, let's start by defining a grand slam offer. It's an offer you present to the marketplace that cannot be compared to any other product or service available. Combining an attractive promotion, an unmatchable value proposition, a premium price, and an unbeatable guarantee with a money model, aka payment terms, that allows you to get paid to get new customers forever removing the cash constraint on business growth. In other words, it allows you to sell in a category of one. Or to apply another great phrase, to sell in a vacuum. The resulting purchasing decision for the prospect is now between your product and nothing. So you can sell at whatever price you get the prospect to perceive, not in comparison to anything else. As a result, it gets you more customers at higher ticket prices for less money. If you like fancy marketing terms, it breaks down to this. One, increase response rates. Think clicks. Two, increased conversions. Think sales. Three, premium prices. Think charging a lot of money. Having a grand slam offer increases your response rates to advertisements, aka more people will click or take action on an advertisement they see containing a grand slam offer. If you pay the same amount for eyeballs, but one, more people respond, two, more of those responses buy, and three, they buy for higher prices, your business grows. I've struck gold on my fair share of offers. Not because I've got some superpower, but because I've just done this a lot of times and failed even more. I've sorted through the crap that chronically fails and pocketed all the stuff that reproducively succeeds and put it into this book. Here's the key takeaway from all this. A business does the same work in both cases with a commoditized offer or a grand slam offer. The fulfillment is the same. But if one business uses a grand slam offer and another uses a commodity offer, the grand slam offer makes that business appear as if it had a totally different product. And that means a valuedriven versus price- driven purchase. If you have a commodity offer, you will compete on price. Having a price driven purchase versus a valuedriven purchase. Your grand slam offer, however, forces a prospect to stop and think differently to assess the value of your differentiated product. Doing this establishes you as your own category, which means it's too difficult to compare prices, which means you recalibrate the prospect's value meter. Real life grand slam offer money math before and after. Quick backstory. One of our companies is a software that advertising agencies use to work leads for their customers. Using the software, agencies transform their offer from a commoditized offer of lead generation services to a grand slam offer of pay for performance. Let me show you the multiplicative effect it has on revenue for business. While rounded for illustration sake, the values I will share with you are based on real numbers. A lead generation agency selling services to brickandmortar businesses experience. Old commoditized way priced race to the bottom commoditized offer $1,000 down then $1,000 per month retainer for agency services. I will read through the chart that is displayed. Advertising spend $10,000. Impressions reach 300,000. Response rate 00013. Appointments booked 40. Show rate 75%. Appointment showed 30. Closing percentage 16%. Appointments closed 5. Price $1,000. Total $5,000. ROAZ or return on advertising spend.5 to1. Here's the breakdown. At 0.5 to1 return on advertising spend, you lose money getting customers. But in 30 days, those five customers will pay another $1,000 each, bringing you $10,000 in total and breaking even. The next month, the $5,000 that comes in will be your first profitable month. And each month thereafter will be profitable, assuming they all stay. This is an example of a commoditized service, normal agency work. There's a million of them, and they all look the same. Commoditized businesses and offers have a harder time getting responses from ads because all their marketing looks the same as everyone else's. Note, it all looks the same because they're all making the same offer. You pay us to work. We do work. Maybe you get results from that work, maybe you don't. It's reasonable, but easily duplicated and subject to commoditization. This commoditization creates a price-driven purchase. You are forced to be priced competitively to get clients and to stay that way to keep them. If the client sees a cheaper version of the same thing, then the value discrepancy will cause them to swap providers. This is a dilemma. Lose this client. the rest of your clients and potential clients or stay competitive. Your margins become so thin they vanish. Furthermore, it's hard to get prospects to say yes and keep them saying less unless you're hypervigilant about clients commoditizing your business by staying again competitive. And that's the problem with the old commoditized way. They're able to compare. Unless you switch to a grand slam offer, your prices will keep getting beat down. The business eventually dies or the entrepreneur throws in the towel. No bueno. We want to make an offer that's so different that you can skip the awkward explanation of why your product's different from everyone else's, which if they have to ask, then they are probably too ignorant to understand the explanation anyways, and instead just have the offer do that work for you. That's the grand slam offer way. Let's dive in to see the contrast in sales numbers. New Grand Slam offer way, differentiated, incomparable, valuedriven. Grand Slam offer, pay one time, no recurring fee, no retainer, just cover the ad spend. I'll generate the leads and work your leads for you and only pay me if people show up. And I'll guarantee you 20 people in your first month or you get your next month free. I'll also provide all the best practices from all their businesses just like yours. Daily sales coaching for your staff, tested scripts, tested price points and offers to swipe and deploy, sales recordings, and everything else you need to sell and fulfill your customers. I'll give you the entire playbook for insert industry absolutely free just for becoming a client. So, in a nutshell, I'm feeding people into your business, showing you exactly how to sell them so that you get the highest prices, which means that you make the most money possible. Sound fair enough? It's clear that these are drastically different offers. But so, what? Where's the money? Let's compare both in the chart below. Advertising spend $10,000. Same as before. Impressions reached $300,000. Same as before. Response rate 0.33. 2.5 times the response rate because you have a more appealing offer. So, more people respond. Appointments booked 40 becomes 100. Show rate 75% stays the same. Appointment showed 30 goes to 75. And that's just a result of numbers flowing down the funnel. Closing percentage goes from 16% to 37%. 2.3 times the closing because there's more value, so more people buy. Appointments closed goes from 5 to 28. That's just a result of the higher closing percentage. price goes from $1,000 to start to $39.97, which is four times the price because we're charging a onetime fee versus recurring. The total collected upfront goes from $5,000 to $112,000. That's 22.4 time the cash upfront collected. And the rorowaz goes from.5 to1 to 11.2:1, which means you're getting paid to get new customers. Breakdown. You spend the same amount of money for the same eyeballs. Then you get two and a half times more people to respond to your advertisement because it's a more compelling offer. From there, you close 2.5 times as many people because the offer is so much more compelling. From there, you're able to charge four times higher prices up front. The end result is 2.5 * 2.5 * 4 equals 22.4 time more cash collected up front. Yes, you just spent $10,000 to make $112,000. You just made money getting new customers. Comparison. Remember the old way? the way you lost half the ad spent up front. With the new way, you're making more money and getting more customers. This means that your cost to acquire a customer is so cheap relative to how much you make that your limiting factor becomes your ability to do the work you already love doing. Cash flow and acquiring customers is no longer your bottleneck because it's 22.4 times more profitable than the old model. Yep, you read that right. This is the part in the action movie where you walk away from an explosion in slow motion. This is the exact Grand Slam offer we use with our software business that serves agencies. The numbers can become wild fast. I know 22.4x better sounds unreasonable, but that's the point. If you play the same game everyone else does, you'll get the same results everyone else does. Mediocre. You hit singles and doubles, keep the lights on, but never get ahead. But remember the opening passage of this book that when you align all the pieces, you can nod it out of the park so well that you win for good. In my first 18 months in business, we went from $500,000 a year to $28 million a year off of less than $1 million in ad spend. So when I say 20 to1, 50 to1, 101 returns, I mean it. When you get this right, the results are well, unbelievable. Summary points. This chapter illustrated the basic problem with commoditization and how Grand Slam offers solve that. This gets you out of the pricing war and into a category of one. The next chapter will focus on finding the correct market to apply our pricing strategies to. It's one of the most important things to get right. A grand slam offer given to the wrong audience will fall on deaf ears. We want to avoid that at all costs. We must detour from pricing for a moment to learn what to look for in a market. It's an essential box to check before continuing on our journey. Pre- gift number one bonus tutorial. Start here. If you want a deeper dive, go to acquisition.com/training/offers and watch the first video in the free course, starring yours truly, about how I differentiate offers in businesses I consult with and get them charging premium prices. I also created some free SOPs and cheat codes that you can download for free so you can implement faster. Enjoy. Pricing chapter 4, finding the right market, a starving crowd. The seed that fell on good soil represents those who truly hear and understand God's word and produce a harvest of 30, 60, or even 100 times as much as has been planted. Matthew 13:23 NLT. A marketing professor asked his students, "If you were going to open up a hot dog stand and you could only have one advantage over your competitors, which would it be? Location, quality, low prices, best taste?" The students kept going until eventually they had run out of answers. They looked at each other, waiting for the professor to speak. The room finally fell quiet. The professor smiled and replied, "A starving crowd." You could have the worst hot dogs, terrible prices, and be in a terrible location, but if you're the only hot dog stand in town, and the local college football game breaks out, you're going to sell out. That's the value of a starving crowd. At the end of the day, if there's a ton of demand for a solution, you can be mediocre at business, have a terrible offer, and have no ability to persuade people, and you can still make money. An example of this was the toilet paper shortage at the beginning of CO 19. There was no offer, the pricing was atrocious, and there was no compelling sales pitch. But because the crowd was so big and so starving, rolls of toilet paper were going for $100 or more. That's the value of a starving crowd. Selling newspapers. A good friend of mine, Lloyd, owned a software business that served newspapers for almost a decade. They set up digital ad services on newspaper websites with a few clicks and instantly helped them sell a whole new ad product. He only charged them a percentage of revenue, he added. So i