# Part 18 of 20

e different value elements and fill in the blanks. I won't go deeper on this since we've covered it already. You simply need to make affiliates the customer you're advertising to. Now that we've got the potential affiliate interested in our offer, let's qualify them. Step three, qualify them. Potential affiliates become actual affiliates when they understand and agree to your terms. And just like customers, we want to get them their first win as fast as possible. So, we set up our terms to force them to win as fast as possible. I do that by getting them to invest. I prefer they invest their time, their money, and in the product itself. Any can work, but nine times out of 10, if they pay, they'll pay attention. Here are the two ways I get my affiliates invested in winning. Make them a customer and make them an expert. Let's dive into each way. Number one, make them a customer, make them buy, and preferably use the product to keep affiliate status. This is the lowest barrier investment that's worked for me. I found the more money an affiliate invests in your product, the more money they make. This should make sense. If they don't believe in your stuff enough to buy it, they probably shouldn't sell it. You can tell them I said so. Pro tip, bulk purchases. If you need to make more money per affiliate, you can require them to buy in bulk. This was huge for Prestige Labs affiliate success. Once they bought a big package up front, they started following through in winning. the bigger investment ultimately made them and us more money. If you have physical products, then try bulk purchases. If your company has a line of products like Prestige Labs does, then toy around with big bundles. Here's how you phrase the offer. So, you want anything extra or just go with the minimum order. By presenting a minimum purchase, they will at least buy that. And more often than you think, they'll buy more than the minimum. Bada boom. Way number two, make them an expert. I make them pay for the onboarding and training that certifies them as a product expert. If you have them buy a product to become an affiliate, you can have them use that as credit towards certification. As in the certification comes with the products they bought. Now, aside from actually making the affiliate useful, certifying them does two things. First, it covers some of the costs of advertising. Second, it means I can afford proper onboarding and training of every single affiliate. How much do I charge? I recommend 10 to 20% of what the average active affiliate makes in the first 12 months. So, if your average affiliate makes $40,000 per year selling your stuff, then charge $4,000 to $8,000 to onboard and train them. Too low and you won't get them invested. Too high and you won't get enough affiliates. I found 10 to 20% maximizes the number of people who become active affiliates. If you're just getting started and have physical products, then use the bulk purchasing strategy from the pro tip. Otherwise, you can use the strategy from the warm reachout chapter and raise the minimum investment every five signups until you hit the sweet spot action step. Make your affiliates customers experts or both. My favorite way. If you don't get enough people to start, lower the commitment. If you don't get enough people to follow through, raise it. Step four, figure out what to pay them. The first biggest problem to solve with affiliates is getting them bought in. But the second biggest problem is how to keep them bought in. And no matter how you slice it, keeping your affiliates bought in depends on how you reward them for advertising your stuff. I prefer to reward people that do things I like with money and free stuff, especially if they make me money first. So, let's talk about that. When I figure out ways to pay affiliates, I look at two basic things. What they get paid for, how much they get paid. One, what they get paid for. Before I do any affiliate payout money math, I ask myself a simple question. What exactly do I want the affiliate to do? Once I figure that out, that is what I pay them for. Then, more often than not, how much they get paid and how often they get paid nearly solve themselves. I pay affiliates for two basic things. new customers and repeat customers. Over time, if you track your metrics better, you can pay them for steps before someone becomes a customer, like for the lead magnets, downloaded, appointment set, or anything else you know reliably turns into sales for you. Two, how much they get paid. I suggest paying affiliates based on your maximum allowable cost to acquire a customer, CAC. Example, choosing your maximum allowable CAC. Let's say we sell a single used product for $200 and it costs $40 to fulfill. This gives us $160 to pay the affiliate and run the business. If we want an LTGP CAC ratio of 3 to1, then three parts goes to the business, $1120, and one part $40 goes to the affiliate. This means we will pay up to $40 for an affiliate to get a new customer. But here's where things get interesting. I used to give away the farm, the whole CAC. I suppose I still do, but I've gotten pickier about who I give it to. Not all affiliates are created equal. So, I suggest having a three- tier payout structure. Using the example above, with a $40 maximum allowable CAC, a three- tier payout structure might look something like this. Tier one, 25% CAC equals $10 payout. Anyone who agrees to my initial terms qualifies. Example, they sign up and buy products or certification. Tier two, 50% CAC equals $20 payout once they activate. Example, actually finishing the certification they bought, doing a specific number of posts and outreach, doing a launch, etc. This give them a nice reward, twice the pay for activating. Tier three, 100% CAC equals a $40 payout once they sustain a level of performance. Example, they maintain five customers per month on subscription. This tiered method also has a hidden and very profitable side effect. The average payout is much less than your maximum allowable CAC. This means if we leave the maximum payouts for top affiliates, then we get to keep the leftover profit. We can use the leftover money to run huge contests, advertise to get more affiliates, incentivize rising stars, etc. Or I suppose we could just plain pocket it. For example, if 20% of sales come from tier 1, 20% from tier 2, and 60% from tier 3, your blended payout is $30 instead of your maximum allowable CAC of $40. This means your LTGP CAC ratio just improved from 3:1 to 4:1. And often cutting marketing costs by 33% can translate into 10% to 20% more net profit at the end of the year. A massive jump. Pro tip: Pay with product if possible. Sell three, get it free. Everyone likes free stuff. Often more than what it would cost them to get it. Rewarding performance with product is a cheap and effective way to keep them winning. They value it at retail, but it only costs you your cost. a nice arbitrage of value. Set sales tiers and bonus your affiliates with product or credit toward the retail cost. At lower tiers, you can even compensate exclusively with free stuff. For example, if your affiliates send you tons of massage clients, it's totally acceptable to reward your affiliates with free massages at low volume. A massage is often worth more to them than sending them a check for $30 your cost. But as affiliates send you more customers, they'll usually opt for more money. After all, cashing in 100 massages becomes unrealistic. At Prestige Labs, I offered anyone who sold more than three packages per month a free $200 bundle of their choosing. This also made every affiliate a sponsored athlete. They got free products for life as long as they kept three clients per month buying. I called it sell three to get it free. Action step. Figure out what you want to pay your affiliates for so that you can plan out how much to pay them with what and how often. Step five, get them advertising launch like referers. How much value affiliates get from you determines how much they advertise your stuff. So treat them like customers. Give them something good fast. And nothing does that for affiliates like big launches and lots of cash. Here's how launches work. Affiliates advertise your lead magnet or core offer to their audience before they can buy it. They post. They do warm outreach. They run paid ads. They may even do cold outreach. They do as much advertising as they can until the day of launch. When the product is available, they sell it to all the engaged leads they assembled. Some sell one-on-one, some pitch to the whole group, and others simply make the product available. So, if you're going to do launches to activate your affiliates, which you should, you may as well do them right. I use the whisper tea shout method. I can't remember where I first heard this, but the name stuck. Let's launch. Before we get launching, remember, good launches have the work done ahead of time. So, do all the work for them. Then, they can plug and play. Let's break down each launch phase. And I'll give an example of my book launch to drive each point home. Note, this is how you launch anything, not just affiliates. I put in the affiliate section because I haven't found a better way to activate affiliates than launches. Whisper, think call outs, like an ad. The key to the whisper phase is curiosity. Keep the product itself mysterious and hint at how big of a deal it is. Keep whispers short. And bonus points, if you show behind the scenes of making your product, if you have something in the works, you can start the whisper phase a few years out. The further out you start whispering, the bigger deal it becomes to your audience. We start this early because the longer something appears to take, the more an audience will value it. For example, all other things being equal, an audience will value a product that took 10 years to make more than one that took 10 days. So show your work. Remember curiosity comes from wanting to know what happens next. So embed questions about the product in their minds. We need to tell them about something they want to know more about. Then say not yet. For example, during the whisper phase of my book launch, I posted content, reached out to friends, emailed my list, and told potential affiliates about major updates to the book. I showed what draft I was on. I took pictures behind the scenes of me printing out drafts. I showed them many versions of the frameworks I drew. I shared videos of myself editing the book early in the morning and late at night, etc. All of it made people who want leads get curious and pay attention. Action step. Start whispering every 4 to 6 weeks until you get 60 days out. Then whisper every 2 to 3 weeks until you get 30 days out. Then start teasing. Tease. Think elements of value. It's time to start satisfying all the curiosity you created during the whisper phase. Reveal your product. Make the date of the launch public and start showing the elements of value. Use the what who win framework from the paid ads chapter. For example, during my book launch, the tease phase, I was more specific and revealed more hard information about the book. I started advertising how the book satisfied the dream outcome of limitless leads of doing less work and getting it done faster than they could imagine. I also showed dozens of examples using the book to its potential. Action step. Start teasing once per week until 14 days out. Then tease twice per week until 3 days out. 3 days out, it's time to shout from the rooftops. Shout. Think call to action. Give specific actions for the audience to take when the product launches. Now you start pounding the audience with bonuses, scarcity, urgency, and guarantees around being the first ones. You shout to get as many people exposed to your offer as you can. For example, during my book launch, the shout phase, I gave specific calls to action, short, sweet, clear reminders to register for the book launch. I reminded everyone of the exclusive bonuses only for people who bought during the launch. Action step. Shout at least twice a day starting 3 days out. On the day of, start shouting every few hours until 2 hours out. Then shout every 30 minutes until you launch the product. Pro tip: movie releases. The best real world example of whisper te shout is movie releases. They do 5-second trailers a year out, then a 30-se secondond 90 days out, then longer trailers as the date approaches. They drive curiosity, then interest, then action. Action step. Get your affiliates to launch. Set them up with everything they need to do the whisper tea shout, right? They do the advertising. You get the engaged leads. Everyone gets paid. Step six, keep them advertising. The strategy we use to start them advertising differs from the one we use to keep them advertising. In an ideal world, you sell an affiliate once and they send engaged leads for life. Integration gets us there. I've got three ways you can integrate your product into their offer. I order these from easiest to hardest. First, you can get them to give away your lead magnet with every purchase of their stuff. Second, you can get them to sell your lead magnet separately to their audience. Third, you can get them to directly sell your core offer. They give away your lead magnet for free, which makes their core offer more valuable for no extra cost. Then you upsell your core offer and every offer thereafter. One, affiliates give your lead magnet away when somebody buys their stuff. The idea here is for your lead magnet to make the affiliates offer more valuable. This allows them to charge more for it and get more leads than they could without it. Remember, the best lead magnets give away a free trial or sample of your thing, reveal a problem, or offer a single step of a multi-step solution. Here are examples of each samples and trials. Say, I sell massages and recruit the personal training studio next door as an affiliate. Now, everyone who buys personal training from them gets a free massage from me. The personal training studio now has a stronger offer they can charge more for and we get more massage leads. Everybody wins. Reveal a problem. Instead of giving a free massage, we offer a free or discounted posture assessment with every training package they sell. Assessments and discounts add less value to the affiliate offer, but some people will still do it. And to be clear, after assessing the customer, you make them an offer to solve the problems you revealed. One step in a multi-step process. Say you have a three-part treatment plan. Massage, stretching, and adjustments. People getting enough value from one step will fear missing out on the rest of the steps. So, the more they think the other steps will help solve their larger problem, the more likely they are to buy them. Your affiliate would give away step one of your multi-step process for free. You'd upsell the leads from there. What I did, we'd get gym affiliates to give away a free nutrition consult to every new member. Then we'd upsell our products at the consult. They can market that they have nutrition consults included to get more leads and they could charge more for the added value. And we get the opportunity to sell those leads. Everybody wins. Pro tip: white label lead magnets. One of my favorite strategies is to let them use the lead magnets I've already made for my audience. For theirs, just make sure your affiliates agree with how you give value and understand your call to action. At most, a few tweaks in the copy will make your lead magnet work for them. For example, for gyms, I made white labeled no logo meal plans, grocery lists, and food prep instructions. I gave them to the gyms to use as lead magnets for their customers. All they had to do was slap their logo on it and boom, their audience got a benefit from all my work instantly and we both got more leads. They sell their core offer. Then they upsell your lead magnet. Then you upsell your core offer and every offer thereafter. Two, affiliates sell your lead magnet. Basically, the affiliate can sell anything of yours that turns their customers into your customers. It could be a book, an event, a service, software, a sample product, etc. Also, giving affiliates all the cash from selling a lead magnet you fulfill becomes all profit and no work for them. An attractive proposition for any business. Your money comes by selling your main thing for more than it cost you to deliver your lead magnet. And if you do it this way, you don't need to split any money with them on your core offer. Another win-win example, they sell each of those things we gave away for free in the step above. They sell your massage at a discounted price. They sell your assessment, which you could do onetoone or in a group format like a workshop. They sell part one of your multi-step solution. What I did, the gyms would sell a nutrition consult with us and keep the money. They'd maybe charge $99, $199 to sell an hour of our time. If we were clever, we'd let them keep all the money. If we do, they'll send us even more leads. Then we'd upsell our products during the consult. Then you split the money. Either you split the upfront cash, all cash for a certain period of time, or all cash forever. I prefer to pay forever so my affiliates stay motivated to keep my customers forever. And I never cap payouts. Three, affiliate sell your core offer. An affiliate sells your core offer directly to their customers and adds another source of income without extra work. For some affiliates, this is their entire source of income. Many companies offer this structure as either a new business opportunity or a bolt-on to the affiliates existing business. Either way, anything you sell, they can sell. When you do it this way, the affiliate will get a higher percentage of a lifetime gross profit, but you won't have to do anything but deliver. Example, they sell your entire massage package. They sell your entire program or services. They bundle their services with your paid services and charge an even higher price. What I did, we taught gyms to hold nutrition consultations with white label products. Then we taught them to upsell our supplements right to their members and we split the money. All three strategies work. They're just different. After testing, we continue to do strategy one twice per year as a big event and strategy three on an ongoing basis. That being said, many similar businesses in our portfolio use strategy 2. I'm just sharing what work for us. Bottom line, integration is the long-term strategy for using affiliates to get enduring lead flow. Treat affiliates like customers. Make your offer make sense for their business. Make it so good they feel stupid saying no. Action step. Integrate with your affiliates by choosing whether you want them to give your lead magnet away, to sell your lead magnet, or to sell your core offer directly. Those are the six steps to recruiting an affiliate army. Now that we covered that, let me give you three real life case studies to drive this home. Three case studies you can model. Service business case study number one, national tax preparation services. My friend's $50 million business prepares LLC's, bank accounts, and articles of incorporation. He focuses on people starting businesses for the first time. But he doesn't try to compete with Legal Zoom. Instead, he built it partnering with people who train new entrepreneurs. His strategy is simple. Help those people sell more of their stuff by also selling his stuff. So, he offers every affiliate customer a free LLC setup. Remember learning about the highost lead magnet from section 2? This is one of those launch. He does a big blastoff seminar to his affiliates audiences to kick things off. People happily take him 