# Part 10 of 20

rate in secrecy. You're not educating your competitors about how you acquire customers. They don't know what you're doing or even that you exist. Three, it's incredibly reliable. All you have to do to get more is do more. A certain amount of input creates a certain number of responses. It becomes like clockwork, bringing a reliable flow of new engaged leads into your world. You can reverse engineer the amount of sales you want to make to the number of inputs at the top of your lead pathway. Eventually, you'll have an equation. For every X people contacted, you get Y customers. Then you simply solve for X. Example, let's say for every 100 emails, I get one customer. If I want 100 customers, I need to send 10,000 emails. That's 333 per day. One person can send 111 emails a day. Therefore, I need three people sending emails every day to get 100 customers per month. Four, fewer platform changes. Private communication is rarely subject to platform changes, whereas public platforms change rules and algorithms every day. You got to stay on top of rule changes to remain effective. In contrast, rules for cold calling, door knocking, and cold email have hardly changed in 30 years. Five, compliance is less painful. Many platforms have stringent rules around claims you can make about the stuff you sell. Some also ban certain industries altogether, tobacco, firearms, cannabis, weight loss, etc. With cold outreach, you don't need to deal with any of this. You still need to be FDC compliant, but you don't also need to worry about platform rules on top. This makes life easier. If you have a phone, you can make money. If you have an email account, you can get leads. This makes you very hard to stop. Six, no spokesperson equals sellable business. If an investor can buy from you without worrying your business will stop getting customers if you leave, your business is far more valuable. Having an established outreach team is how we were able to sell gym launch. The business could grow without me dancing in front of the camera or relying on me being super ridiculously good-looking, huh? I don't think they would have wanted to buy us without it, or at least not for as much. Seven, hard to copy. Even if someone wants to copy your entire cold outreach system, they'll often need to learn how to do each step. And many steps are invisible. They don't know how you scrape your lists. They don't know how you personalize your messages. They don't know what softwares you use to distribute the messages, etc. On top of that, they'd still need to learn how to hire, train, and operate a team of people who can do each step. Once you have a head start, it compounds with time. It becomes very hard to catch you. Author note: belief breaking volume scaling to 60,000 emails per month. To break your beliefs around what is possible, here's an example. To break past $1 million per month, we automated the entire process of scraping, crafting, and sending emails for one of our portfolio companies. One virtual assistant sends 2,000 emails per day using multiple pieces of software. This generates the business 40 engaged leads per day. Note, the response rate dropped because we took out so much personalization. From there, they're able to get 10% of engaged leads sold, meaning they get four new customers per day. This got them past the 100 customers per month barrier. Fun facts, they started with us at $250,000 per month, our minimum size requirement for investment at the time. The business makes $20,000 per customer with four new customers per day. Do the math at how big they are now. Smiley face. Your turn. If you recall our advertising checklist, this kicks off your journey to get more engaged leads with cold outreach. You start this as you run out of people to advertise to or because you just want more. Here's a sample cold reachouts daily checklist. Who yourself? What? Hook plus lead magnet/core offer where any private communication platform to whom list scraped bot or software used when every day 7 days per week. Why? Get leads to engage to sell stuff. How? Live calls, voicemail drops, email blasts, text blasts, direct message texts, video messages, voice messages, direct mail pieces, handwritten cards, etc. How much? 100 per day. How many? Day 1, 2x. Day 2, 2x, day 7, 1x. How long? As long as it takes. Pro tip: count in 100s. This is a volume game. You'll need to do a lot of volume efficiently to get the results you want. Don't set a daily goal below 100 and don't stop for 100 days minimum. If you do 100 reachouts for 100 days straight, I promise you will start getting new engaged leads. Next up, now that you have set your commitment for this cold outreach method, we move on to the last thing a single person can do to advertise. Run paid ads. Number four, run paid ads. Part one, making an ad. How to publicly advertise to strangers. Advertising is the only casino where with enough skill you become the house. June 2013. Let's try some Facebook ads for the gym. I spouted. Sam's eyebrow went up. They don't work. I already tried. Now, this was the brief time between quitting my real job and starting my first gym. I wanted some experience. So, I cold emailed more than 40 gym owners for a chance to shadow them. Sam was the only one who responded to my pleas for mentorship. He let me work at his gym with him for minimum wage. I'm forever grateful for that opportunity. I promise. I really think they'll work. I said, "Let me give it a shot with the stuff I learned from that workshop last weekend. I'll do everything. That workshop took most of my puny savings." Sam leaned back in his chair, crossing his arms. I'll tell you what, I'll give you a,000 bucks to play with. If you lose it, then you have to shut up about this Facebook stuff. If you make more, I'll split the profit with you. Deal. I worked with a freelancer to get everything set up. We went back and forth until it was perfect. A few days later, I marched into Sam's office to show him what I'd made. "It's ready," I said. He spun his laptop to face me. "All right, Horoszi, show me what you've got." I placed the ugliest ad you've ever seen. I'm looking for five Chino Hills residents to take place in a free six-w weekek challenge. You must let us use your before and after pictures in our marketing in exchange for the program. Click link to sign up. Link: No images, no videos, no freeze, just words, all caps. The ad went live. We got leads within hours. I called them all and booked appointments as fast as I could. I also texted them about an hour before to remind them of our appointment. And as soon as they walked in, I started yapping about our 6- week challenge. I had zero sales skills. My conviction made up for my lack of skill. They bought. I sold 19 people at $299 each. We made just under $5,700 from the $1,000 investment. True to his word, Sam cut me a check and handed it over. He made it out for $2,500. More than my share. Sam, this is He cut me off. Nice work, Hormosi. Do it again. This 6 week challenge became the biggest promotion in the gym industry for 7 years. It drove at least $1.5 billion in revenue, more by now. I taught it to over 4,500 gyms, and I bet more than 10,000s plus gyms used versions of the promotion without licensing it. Maybe you saw ads for it in your local market. And yes, if you're curious, it got more sophisticated as time went on. How paid ads work. Paid ads are a way to advertise one to many to cold audiences, people who don't know you. Paid ads work by paying another person or business to put your offer in front of their audience. Think of it like renting eyeballs or earballs. And because you don't need to spend time building an audience, paid ads are the fastest way to get the most people to see your stuff. You trade money for reach, a considerable advantage when you know what you're doing. Ads are riskier, but when done right, they can get you more leads than any other method. With warm and cold outreach, we have to do more stuff to reach more people. To reach more people with free content, we depend on the platform or audience sharing it if they feel like it. Paid ads are different. The reach is guaranteed, but getting your money back isn't. So, it's a game of efficiency rather than reach. Let me explain. In principle, if you paid enough money, you could get every person in the world to see your ad. And if every person in the world saw your ad, someone would buy, even if only by accident. How? So, the question isn't, do ads work? It's how well can you make them work? In other words, it's a push and pull between how much you spend and how much they buy. And like cold outreach, paid ads go to cold or lower trust audiences. So even with good offers, a smaller percentage of people will respond. And like cold outreach, paid ads get over this hurdle by putting your offer in front of more people. And if an ad isn't profitable, most of the time it's because the right people never saw it. So to make an ad profitable, the right people have to see it. This keeps our ads efficient. This chapter reveals how I create more efficient paid ads by finding needles in the haystack. I start with the entire world as my audience haystack, then narrow down to get a higher percentage of engaged leads needles. First, I pick a platform that contains my ideal audience. Second, I use whatever targeting methods that exist within the platform to find them. Third, I craft my ad in a way that repels anyone else. Finally, I tell whoever's left standing to take the next step. People over complicate it, but that's it. That's all we're doing. Narrowing down who sees our ad so we have the highest chance of getting the right type of people to respond. Once we advertise profitably in a small puddle of an audience, we expand to a pond, then a lake, than an ocean. And as the audience gets bigger, it does have more of the wrong people, but it has more of the right ones, too. So ads decrease in efficiency, but at that point you can afford it. In other words, the ratio between what you spend and how much they buy goes down, but the total amount of money you make goes up. So instead of spending $1,000 to make $10,000 with $9,000 in profit, you spend $100,000 to make $300,000 with $200,000 in profit. Your ratio goes down, but you make more money. So the risk is higher because you spend more, but so is the reward. This means we want to make the audience as big as possible while still turning a profit. Paid ads give us four new problems to solve. Let's break them down together. One, knowing where to advertise. Two, getting the right audience to see it. Three, making the best ad for them to see. Four, getting permission to contact them. Step one, but where do I advertise? Find a platform where these four things are true. Platforms distribute content to an audience. If you're not familiar with any available platforms, I invite you to come join me on planet Earth. If you've ever consumed content, which you have, you've directly or indirectly used a platform and been a member of its audience. And wherever there's an audience, you can usually advertise. So, if you want to become a great entrepreneur, you have to learn about them. Here's what I look for in a platform I want to advertise on. I've used it and gotten value from it as a consumer. So, I have some idea how it works. I can target people on the platform interested in my stuff. I know how to format ads specific to the platform, which I'll dive into in step three. I have the minimum amount of money to spend to place an ad. And yes, platforms change all the time, but these principles stay the same. Pro tip, place ads where your competitors place ads to start. Platforms often have different ad types. For example, on LinkedIn, you can send message ads or you can run newsfeed ads. On Instagram, you can run ads to the news feed or stories. On YouTube, you can run ads on the sidebar, midstream, or as pre-roll. So, how do you know where to start? Look at the ad placement of other people in your space and start there. If they can make it work, so can you. Replicate before you iterate. Action steps. Start with one platform that meets the four requirements and start watching, listening, or reading ads on the platform as a first step to learning how to make one. Step number two, but how do I get the right people to see it? Target them. So, if we start with the entire world, which we kind of do, we need to be a bit more specific. For example, if you choose a platform that has 100 million users, you've already cut out 99% of the world right off the bat. And if everyone who buys from you speaks English, you also want to exclude the audiences within the platform who don't. If that's half the platform's users, you're already at 99.5% of the world excluded. Specific is good. The right message to the wrong audience will fall on deaf ears. It doesn't matter how good your ads are. If you're marketing to Florida residents about a local business in Iowa, it's probably not going to work. So, you have only one goal when targeting. Get the highest number of people you think will buy your stuff to see your ad. We did our first round of targeting by selecting our platform. We do the second round within the platform itself. Modern advertising platforms have two ways to target. You can use them separately or combine them. One, target a lookalike audience. Modern platforms can show your ad to an audience that is similar to and much bigger than a list you provide. Advertisers call this a lookalike audience. Modern platforms will make lookalike audiences for you so long as you upload their minimum list size. The bigger the list and the higher quality the contacts, the more responsive the lookalike audience will be. Start with your list of current and previous customers. If your customer list is big enough to meet the platform minimum, use it. If it's not big enough, add your warm reachout list. If it's still not big enough, add your cold reachout leads to hit the minimum. This is exactly what I do. Forcing the list to the right size sometimes makes the lookalike audience too broad. And that's okay because you can two target with factors of your choosing. Targeting options include age, income, gender, interest, time, location, etc. For example, if you know no one over 45 or below 25 has ever bought your thing, then exclude anyone outside that range. If you sell car parts, then show your ad during car shows and on car channels. If only people with pets by your thing, then include pets as an interest. Basic filters on top of the platform generated lookalike audience are a simple way to get more of the right people to see your ads. End result, more efficient ads. Pro tip, local targeting. Since local markets are already tiny in comparison to national markets, you won't want to add many more filters. Be as specific as possible, but no further. The local market on its own is already.1% of a nation, so you're already pretty narrow. The more filters you use, the more specific the list. The more specific the list, the more efficient your ads, but the faster you will burn through it. However, this specificity sets you up to get more wins early on. The wins from smaller specific audiences now give you the money to advertise to larger and broader audiences later. This is how you scale. Action steps bring all your lead list together into one place. Separate them by past and previous customers, warm outreach, and cold outreach. Eventually, you'll have a list of people that engaged with your paid ads by giving you contact information but didn't buy. That'll come in handy. Then if the platform allows, use these lists in order of quality to create your lookalike audience. Then if the platform also allows, add filters on top of your lookalike audience to target an even higher percentage of people to engage with your ad. If you're incapable of making a lookalike audience, then simply start by targeting interests. Step number three, but what should my ad say? Call out plus value plus call to action CTA. To this day, I don't change the channel when I see an ad. I rarely mute ads or skip ads. In fact, I have no premium subscriptions that remove ads on any media platforms either. Main reason, I want to consume the ads. I want to see how businesses do three things. One, how they call out their ideal customers. Two, how they present the value elements. Three, how they give their audience a call to action. When I look at ads this way, it turns what was once an everyday nuisance ads into a continuous learning experience. Consuming ads on purpose with the core elements in mind makes me a better advertiser and it will make you a better one, too. Let's use the three chunks to make an ad. One, call outs. I need to get them to notice my ad. Two, value. I need to get them interested in what I have to offer. Three, calls to action. I need to tell them what to do next. One, call out. People noticing your ad is the most important part of the ad by a lot. The purpose of each second of the ad is to sell the next second of the ad, and the headline is the first sale. As David Oglevie says, after you've written your headline, you've spent 80 cents of your advertising dollar. Focus your effort front to back. As crazy as this sounds, and all the pros are nodding their heads, my advertising became 20x more effective when I focused the majority of my effort on the first 5 seconds. We need the audience's eyes and ears just long enough for them to realize this is for me. I'll keep paying attention. This first impression is the part of the ad I test the most. Imagine you're at a cocktail party in a big ballroom. Lots of people talking in groups. Loud music playing in the background. In all that noise, a single sound pierces through it all. And you turn around. Want to know the sound? Your name. You hear it and instantly look for the source. Scientists call it the cocktail party effect. In simple terms, even when there's tons of stuff going on, a single thing can still catch and hold our attention. So, our goal with call outs is to harness the cocktail party effect and cut through all the noise. After all, if they never notice your ad, nothing else matters. A call out is whatever you do to get the attention of your audience. Call outs go from hyper specific to get one person's attention to not at all specific to get everyone's attention. Let me explain. If someone drops a tray of dishes, everyone looks. If a child yells mom, then the mom's look. If someone says your name, only you look. But again, they all get attention. And I try to make my call outs specific enough to get the right people and broad enough to get as many of them as I can. So, pay close attention to how advertisers use call outs, especially the ones targeting your audience. Here's what I look for with verbal call outs. Using words to get attention. One, labels. A word or set of words putting people into a group. These include features, traits, titles, places, and other descriptors. X Clark County moms, gym owners, remote workers. I'm looking for XYZ, etc. To be most effective, your ideal customers need to identify with the label. A people automatically identify with their local area. So, with local ads, the more local, the better. A local ad with local area plus type of person call out is still one of my all-time favorite ways to get someone's attention. It worked 200 years ago. It works today and it'll work tomorrow. So, think Americans, Texans, Dallas residents, Irving residents. If you live in Irving, you'll immediately think this ad could affect you. So, it catches your attention. Two yes questions. questions where if people answer yes, that's me, they qualify themsel for the offer. Example, do you wake up to pee more than once a night? Do you have trouble tyi