# Part 8 of 20

it. Imagine a person pays for your thing and then consumes your free content. If your free content is valuable, they will like you more and stay loyal to your business longer. On the flip side, if they consume your free content and it sucks, they will like your paid product less. Here's something you may not know. Somebody who buys your stuff is more likely to consume your free content. This is why it's so important to make your free content good. Your customers will include it in how they calculate their ROI from your paid thing. Six, people don't have shorter attention spans. They have higher standards. Repeated for emphasis, there's no such thing as too long, only too boring. Streaming platforms have proven that people will spend hours binging long form content if they like it. Our biology hasn't changed. Our circumstances have. they have more rewarding stuff to choose from. So, make good stuff people like and reap the rewards rather than whining about people's short attention spans. Seven, avoid pres-scheduling posts. The posts I manually post perform better than ones I preschedu. Here's my theory. When you manually post, you know that within seconds, you will be rewarded or punished for the quality of the content. Because of that close feedback loop, you try that much harder to make it better. When I schedule stuff out, I don't feel that same pressure. So, whenever I post or my team does, we strongly believe in someone pressing the submit button because it gives that last bit of pressure to get it right. Try it. Benchmarks. How well am I doing? If our audience grows, we did good. But if our audience grows fast, we did goodter. So, I like to measure my audience size and speed of growth monthly. Here's what I measure. One, total followers and reach. How big? A. Follower example. If I go from 1,000 followers across all platforms to,500, I grew my audience by 500. B. Reach example. If I go from 10,000 people seeing my stuff to 15,000 people seeing my stuff, I grew my reach by 5,000 people. Two, rate of getting followers and reach. How fast you compare the growth between months. A example, if I gain those 500 followers in a month, that would make it a 50% growth month. 500 new/1,000 started equals 50% growth rate. Be example, if I reach those 5,000 extra people in a month, that would make it a 50% growth month. 5,000 new/10,000 started equals 50% growth rate. Remember, we can only control inputs. Measuring outputs is only useful if we are consistent with inputs. So pick the posting cadence you want to stick with on a particular platform. Then pick your ass cadence on that platform. How you will direct people to become engaged leads. Then start and do not stop. For reference, I posted a new podcast twice a week for four years before even getting picked up on the top 100 list. Because I did the same thing every week for years. I knew I could trust the feedback. In the beginning, it didn't grow much. It took time for me to get better and I knew I had to make more over a long time for that to happen. So, if your listeners go from 10 to 15 in a month, that's progress, baby. Even with small absolute numbers, that's 50% monthly growth. It's why I like to measure both the absolute and relative growth and pick the one that makes me feel better. Huh. As my friend Dr. Cashy says, the more ways you measure, the more ways you can win. Be consistent. Measure a lot. Adapt to feedback. Be a winner. To close the loop, in its fifth year, my podcast, The Game, became a top 10 podcast in the US for business and top 500 in the world. This was only possible after 5 years of multiple podcasts per week, every week. Remember, everyone starts at zero. You just got to give time time. your first post. You've probably been providing value to other humans knowingly or unknowingly for a while. So, the first post you make, you can make an ask. My hope is that it gets you your first engaged lead. If it doesn't, you need to give for a while, then make an ask once you've earned the right, too. To show you that I'm not making this up, below you can find my first business post ever. Is it ideal? No. I had no idea what I was doing. Should you copy it? Probably not. Main point. Don't be afraid of what other people think. If someone won't speak at your funeral, you shouldn't care about their opinion while you're alive. Honor the few who believe in you by having courage. Whenever I read this, I just thank you, Goon. But hey, I was trying. And for that, I'm proud. Recap. We covered eight things. One, the content unit done. Two, short versus long form content done. Three, mastering the give. Ask ratio done. Four, how to ask done. Five, how to scale it done. Six, lessons from content done. Seven, benchmarks done. Eight, your first post done. Now you know nothing's stopping you. So what do I do right now? Posting free content is less predictable than but complimentary to warm reachouts. So keep doing warm reachouts. Also, posting free content grows your warm audience and a bigger warm audience means more people for warm reachouts. So, free content gets engaged leads on its own and keeps getting engaged leads through warm reachouts. Instead of ditching one for the other, I recommend you post free content in addition to warm reachouts. Let's fill out our daily action commitment for our first platform. Post content daily checklist. Who yourself? What value? Give. Give, give until they ask. Where? Any media platform. To whom? People who already follow you. When? Every morning, 7 days a week. Why? Build goodwill. Get engaged leads. How? Written image, videos, audio posts. How much? 100 minutes per day. How many? As many times as the platform shows it. How long? As long as it takes. Next up, first we start with warm outreach. We reach out to every person we have permission to contact. Second, we post publicly about the successes and lessons we have from our first clients. We post testimonials. We provide value then occasionally ask. We commit to doing both of these activities every day. With these two methods alone can eventually build a six or seven figure business. But you may want to go faster. So we venture from warm audiences who know us to cold audiences who don't. We begin reaching out to strangers. This begins the third step in our advertising journey. Cold outreach. Three. Cold outreach. How to reach out to strangers to get engaged leads. Quantity has a quality all of its own. Napoleon Bonapart. July 2020. COVID 19 raged. In a matter of months, 30% of my customers went out of business. Protesters filled every platform with hate and anger. Politicians made promises. Small businesses suffered in silence. Unemployment skyrocketed. The most tumultuous election ever was upon us. And here we were trying to generate leads to pay our bills. Employees everywhere and their families depended on it. All three of my companies at the time, Gym Launch, Prestige Labs, and Allen, relied on brickandmortar businesses staying open, and they were closed. Brilliant strategy, Alex. To make matters worse, Apple did a software update that crippled our ads. The market was crap. Our paid ads were crap and I carried the bucket. I ran through worst case scenarios. How much cash would it take to keep us afloat? How long do I keep paying people when there's no end in sight? Should I dip into personal accounts? Give up a third of my life savings? Half. All of it. What does that say about me? I had no idea what to do. Early that Saturday morning, I tried to sleep long enough for my alarm to wake me, but it was no use. I went to my office and checked Instagram. I had a new message waiting for me. Hey, Alex. Kale told me you guys don't need salesman anymore, so my offer got pulled. I quit my job to accept it. Super honored you considered me. I hope you'll consider me again the next time you have openings. Looking for context, I scrolled up. Reading our earlier messages rewarded me with a pang of guilt. I was the one who told him to apply. He took the rejection. Well, a sign of a good salesman. I felt obligated to reply. You on? I messaged. Yes, he replied. Got five. Yes. We hopped on a call. He sounded a little nervous, but I could tell he knew his stuff. It sucks we don't have enough leads for this guy. I've wanted to work for you a while now. I read your book and used the scripts to become the top producer of my company, he said. That's awesome. I'm so glad to hear it. What kind of company? I asked. A gym software company. I hadn't heard of them. Oh, interesting. How do you guys get leads? We're 100% cold outreach. You cold call and cold email gyms, then sell them software. Yeah, pretty much. How big is the team? We got about 30 guys. A team of 30. What's your revenue like if you can share that with me? We're doing about $10 million per month now. Insane. Just from cold outreach. Yeah, we run some ads, but we haven't cracked that yet. And you do this with a retention offer. You're not even really making gyms more money. Yeah, it's definitely not as easy to sell as the stuff you do for gyms. Do you think you could use the same cold outreach system here? I've never started a team, but I bet I could figure it out. All right, what was the offer Kale pulled? I was going to be a closer, but he said you guys didn't need one anymore. I thought for a moment. Well, given our current lead volume, he's probably right. But if you can get your own leads, I'll give you the runway to get cold outreach going. What do you think? It takes a while to get going. I'll have to figure out the scripts for your offer. Yeah, that makes sense. How long you think? I'm confident I can make it profitable in 12 weeks. All right, deal. I'll let Kale know the plan. To be clear, you'll be expected to figure all this out. The software, the lists, everything. I'll front you the time, but we can't support you much beyond that. Understood. Here's what happened during the months that followed. September, zero sales. Zippa, nothing. Zilch. Nada. October, two sales, $32,000 in revenue. Team asked me to pull the plug on cold outreach. December, four sales, $64,000 in revenue. Team asked me to pull the plug again. January, six sales, $96,000 in revenue. February, 10 sales, $160,000 in revenue. March, 14 sales, $224,000 in revenue. April, 20 sales, $320,000 in revenue. May 30 sales, $480,000 in revenue. Today, Cold Outreach generates millions per month for our businesses. Making this work took every legal cold outreach method we knew. Cold calls, cold emails, cold direct messages, voicemails, everything. But piece by piece, we built a reliable customer getting machine. I wanted something that would endure. And that's what I'm going to show you how to build. I learned five important lessons from this experience. One, there was another company in my space making a lot more money than mine. It broke my belief about how big the market really was. Two, they made all their money through private advertising. I had no way of knowing they existed unless they contacted me first. So, they kind of operated in secret. Three, they built a very profitable cold outreach machine in my space. If they could do it, so could I. For it's good to have proper expectations. Cold outreach veterans told me it would take a year to scale. I figured we could do it in 12 weeks. I was wrong. It took almost a year. Cold outreach takes a long time. At least it did for me. Five. We tried cold outreach two times before and failed. Working with a person that had done it all before was immensely helpful in getting this going. I hope to be that person for you now. How cold outreach works. At some point, you'll want one of two things. Either you want to grow faster than you currently are, or you want to increase the predictability of your lead flow. Here's how we can do that. We advertise to people who don't know us, cold audiences. And like before, we can contact them publicly or privately. In this chapter, we focus on private one-to-one communication with cold outreach. For added context, cold outreach sits at top the foundation of warm outreach. So, think of this as the more advanced cousin of warm outreach. No longer limited by your warm audience. If you can figure out a way to contact somebody onetoone, you can use it for cold outreach. You knock on 100 doors, you make 100 phone calls, you send 100 direct messages, you send 100 voicemails. All these are examples of cold outreach that have made companies zillions. It worked 100 years ago. It works today. And when the platforms change, it'll work tomorrow. Cold outreach has one key difference from warm outreach. Trust. Strangers don't trust you. And compared to people who know us, strangers present three new problems. One, first, you don't have a way to contact them. Duh. Two. Second, even if you can contact them, they ignore you. Three, third, even if they give you their attention, they're not interested. Let me describe what these problems look like in the real world. If you're knocking on doors, you don't have the addresses. Then even if you do, they don't open the door when you knock. If they open, they still tell you to pound sand. If you're making cold calls, you don't have their phone numbers. Even if you do, they don't pick up. If they pick up, they hang up on you. If you're sending cold emails, you don't have their email addresses. Even if you do, they don't open the email. Even if they do, they don't respond. If you're sending direct messages, you don't have a place to send it. Even if you do, they don't read it. Even if they read it, they don't reply. If you're sending voice memos or text messages, you don't have their numbers. Even if you do, they don't read or listen to it. Even if they read or listen to it, they don't reply. Now that we got that out of the way, the order we solve these problems is one, get a way to contact them. Two, figure out what to say. Three, contact them until they're ready and able to listen. The result, we find lots of ways to contact the most qualified strangers. We reach out to a lot of them in a lot of ways a lot of times. Then we overwhelm them with value upfront to get them to show enough interest to move forward. Author note, it'll take a few more steps than normal. As a personal rule of thumb, I sell expensive stuff. I sell expensive stuff better when I do it in multiple steps rather than on the first contact. So my first priority is to get the prospect to show interest in the stuff I sell. When they show interest, I schedule a time to sell them. If my lead magnet requires a second exchange to deliver it, I do that. Then if my lead magnet provides value on its own, then the next call is to talk about the value they received. Either way works. Cold outreach is a numbers game. The more people you reach out to, the more engaged leads you get. Once we figure out how much outreach it takes to engage a lead, then we only have one thing to do more. Let's go hunting. As there are three new problems strangers introduce, I divided this chapter into three steps. One step per problem. First, we get a targeted list of leads. Next, we need to know what to say to get them to reply. Third, we make up for a lower response rate by increasing the volume and type of our reachout attempts. Problem one. But how do I contact them? Build a list. Up until this point, from warm reachouts and posting free content, you've had to accept the leads that came to you from your warm audience. No more. With cold outreach, unlike any other way of advertising, we get to be as specific as we want. Only want to talk to hedge fund managers managing over $1 billion? Done. You can do that. Only want to speak with golf apparel retail store owners over $3 million in sales? Done. Only want to talk to influencers who get over 50,000 unique page views per month? Done. Now we get to pick our targets rather than them picking us. Now, you probably don't have a way to reach out to 1,000 perfect fit strangers. And if we're going to get them a buy from us, we've got to first find a way to contact them. Duh. So, let's solve that problem. First, there are three different ways I get my targeted lead lists. First, I use software to scrape a list of names. Second, I pay brokers to assemble me a list of targeted leads. And if neither of those work, I manually scrape a list of names myself. Here's the process. Step number one, softwares. I subscribe to as many softwares as I can that scrape lead from different sources. I search them all based on my criteria. The software then spits out names, job titles, contact information, etc. I try out a representative sample, say a few hundred from each software I use. Then if the contact information is up todate, the leads are responsive and they're the type of person the software claims them to be. Bingo. Then I get as many leads as the software will give me. But if I can't seem to find the right audience, I move on step two. Step number two, brokers. I go to multiple list brokers and ask them to make me a list based on my audience criteria. They then send me a sample. I test out sample lists from each of the brokers. If I get good results from one or more brokers, I stick with their lists. And if I still can't find who I'm looking for, I move to step three. Step number three, elbow grease. I join groups and communities that I think have my audience. When I find people that meet my qualifications, I check to see if they have ways to contact them in the group's directory, like links to their social media profiles, etc. If they do, I add them to my list. If they don't, I can reach out to them within the platform hosting the group. I prefer to find contact information outside the group so I don't come off as someone solely trying to milk the group for business, but I will if I have to. So, I work my way from the most accessible leads to the least accessible leads. Here's an important point. If you can search the database, so can everyone else. But if you assemble a list of names yourself, it's less likely that person has already received many cold reachouts from other companies, so they're the freshest. Downside, it takes the most time. Of course, you can pay someone else to do this for you once you figure it out for yourself, but we're only talking about getting started in this chapter. We'll talk about scaling in section 4. Action step. Find your scraping tool by searching outbound lead scraping tool or database lead scraping. Find brokers the same way. With a few clicks, you'll find what you're looking for. Put your first 1,000 names together. If you have more time and money, you might want to start at step three since it only costs time. Pro tip: Interest groups are the warmest cold audience you can get. Interest groups contain the highest quality leads because there are concentrated pools of people looking for a solution. Give them one. Nowadays, there's software that can scrape information from these groups. Use it. They're one of my favorite places to fish. Problem number two. I have my list, but what do I say to them? Personalize, then give big fast value. Now that you have your list of leads, you got to figure out what to say. I went over a lot of scripting in the warm reachout section. This section builds on that one. At the end of this chapter, I also include three sample scripts you can model for cold calls, cold emails, and cold chat messaging. That being said, there are two important factors I emphasize to get strangers to engage. Personalization and big fast value. This is important because they don't know us and they don't trust us. We got to overcome both issues in a matter of seconds. Hey, they don't know us personalize. Act like you know them. To get more leads to engage, we want a message to look like it's from someone they know. The best way to do that