# Part 17 of 20

ld come back once in a while to make me feel better. Step nine, results still suffered and I'd eventually cancel. Step 10, I'd search for another agency and repeat the cycle of insanity. Step 11, for the zillionth time, start wondering why I wasn't getting results like the first time. To be clear, like the introduction to this chapter shows, agencies can play a valuable role in business growth, but not the way they want you to. I don't want anyone else falling into the same trap. In fact, I hope all the money I wasted goes towards paying down your ignorance tax, too. So, keep reading. It's frankly ridiculous that it took me so many years to figure out that I actually use an agency the right way the first time, but now after playing their game so many times, I feel I cracked the how to use an agency code. And it doesn't come from playing their game at all. It comes from playing a different one. And this chapter breaks it all down in three steps. Hiring an agency versus doing it yourself. How I use agencies now and how you can too. How to pick the right agency. Hiring an agency versus doing it yourself. First, let's get this out of the way. Good agencies cost money. So, if you have no money, then agencies are out of the question. You've got to learn through trial and error, and that's no big deal. We all start that way. But if you do have some money, I suggest using agencies for two things. Learning new methods and learning new platforms. If I want to learn new ways to do content, outreach or paid ads, then I hire agencies offering new ways to do them. They've already made the big mistakes. So instead of wasting time figuring it out myself, I skip straight to the make money part. I like the make money part. I also use agencies when I want to start advertising on a platform I don't understand. I make money faster because they do the early setup and maintenance for me and because I get them to teach me how to do it. Hiring an agency is all about investing in important skills you can't really learn anywhere else. That is unless you go through all the trial and error to learn it yourself. And if you did, you lose the time and attention you could have used to learn the other important stuff that scales your business. And scaling your business is the whole point. Action step. As soon as you have enough money for a good agency, start poking around. If you follow the rest of the steps in this chapter, you'll make it all back and then some. How I use agencies now and how you can, too. I've become a little more sophisticated than the story I told at the beginning. Here's how I use agencies. Now, rather than believe the lie that I'll never have to learn this stuff because they can do it, I start every agency relationship with a purpose and a deadline to fulfill it. I open by saying, "I want to do what you do in my business, but I don't know how. I like to work with you for 6 months so I can learn how you do it. Plus, I'll pay extra for you to break down why you make the decisions you do and the steps you take to make them. Then after I get a good idea of how it all works, I'll start training my team on it. And once they can do it well enough, I'd like to change to a lowerc cost consulting arrangement. This way, you can still help us if we run into problems. Are you opposed to this? In my experience, most agencies are not opposed to this. And if it doesn't work for them, that's perfectly fine. Just move on to the next agency. But before you start kicking everyone to the curb, be willing to negotiate. at some price. It's worth it for both of you. Viva Capitalism. This is how I use agencies now. Like when I wanted to learn YouTube, I actually hired two agencies. The first I hired to keep me committed to making videos while they did some leg work on the platform itself. The second I hired at 4x the price to really teach us the in-depth ideas behind making the best content possible. And once our videos beat their videos, we drop down to consulting only. I've used this method again and again. I hire one good enough agency to learn the ropes of a new platform. Then I hire a more elite agency to learn how to maximize it. And I cannot recommend the strategy enough. If you're upfront about your intentions and the agency agrees, you get the best of both worlds. You get better short-term results because they probably know more than you. And you get better long-term results because you learn how to do it yourself where your team learns to do it for you. You also spend the maximum amount of time with their best reps. Remember, you only get a fraction of the agency's attention, so results get worse whenever they get new clients. Meanwhile, your team gets better and better because they stay focused on you full-time. So, compare your team's results to the agencies until you beat them. Then cancel the relationship and put the money into scaling everything you just learned. Action step. When you find an agency to work with, next step, set terms with them and deadlines for yourself. Use the template above as your guide and feel okay with negotiating a bit to make it work. Author note, yes, there's a place for agencies. To be clear, I still own equity in an agency software, Allan. So, I'm not against agencies. I just share how I've had success with them. Are there massive companies that use huge ad agencies? Sure. But they're not who I'm writing for. For most people, spending $10,000, $50,000, or $100,000 on an agency is a significant cost. So, this is how I've gotten the best return from working with them. Also, some people never want to learn, and for those people, agencies are great. I personally always want to learn, which is why I use agencies this way. How to pick the right agency. After working with tons of bad agencies and a handful of good ones, I created a list of what all the good ones had in common. Now, it isn't the last word on what makes a good agency, but it is useful stuff that's worked for me. Here's what I look for. One, somebody know got good results working with them. If you only know about an agency from their paid ads or cold outreach, they probably aren't as good as the ones who rely solely on word of mouth, and the best ones do. Two, prominent companies got good results working with them. I may not know the companies personally, but if I recognize them, it's a good sign. Three, a waiting list. When demand for a service exceeds the supply, they are probably pretty good. Four, a clear sales process that makes a point to set realistic expectations. No funny business. Five, no short-term hacks. They keep the talk on long-term strategy. They also give clear timelines for setup, scaling, and results. Six, they tell me exactly what they need from me, when they need it, and how they use it. Seven, they suggest a regular schedule of meetings and offer several ways to update me on their progress. Eight, they give updates in simple terms and have clear ways to track so I know how costs compare with results. Nine, they make a good offer. Dream outcome is what they promise what I want. Perceived likelihood of achievement. How many other people like me have they gotten there? Time delay. How long will it take? Effort and sacrifice. What do they require me to do when working with them? What will I have to give up? Can I stick with those for a long time? 10. They're expensive. All good agencies are expensive, but not all expensive agencies are good. So talk with as many as it takes and use this list as a guide to find the good ones. If an agency checks those boxes, they're worth considering. Pro tip, talk to more agencies to be a better customer. Being an informed customer helps everyone. So before you buy, get informed. Talk to five or 10 agencies to learn how they work. At first, you'll learn a bunch of new stuff, but over time, the difference between the better ones and the worst ones becomes obvious. Now you can make an informed decision. If the agency doesn't meet my needs, but I like the people, I'll ask them to refer me to another agency. A good agency offering a one specialty will send you to other good agencies who offer the one you want. Those are some of my favorite referrals. Action step. Even if an agency agrees to your terms, talk with a few more before you make a decision. Compare them using the checklist above and then pick the best one for you. Conclusion. Even though this isn't the traditional agency model, both businesses benefit. They get a customer they otherwise wouldn't have, and we get a money-making skill for life. In the story at the beginning of the chapter, it cost me 8 hours and $6,000 to learn a skill that's made me millions. Does that seem worth it to you? It better. And to make this agency method work at scale, you have to count on a good amount of time where you pay the agency and your team to do the same stuff. You got to give yourself some breathing room to get results from the agency, learn what they do, and train your team on it all at once. Yes, it costs a lot of money. And yes, it's totally worth it when you get it right. And get it right you can. After agencies put a low-level employee on my account for the millionth time, it finally clicked. This can't be that hard. At first, it took about a year to get my team better than an agency. As I got better, it went down to 10 months, then eight. And now I got it down. I can get my team as good or better than the agency in less than 6 months or less. And every time I want to learn a new method or platform, I repeat the process. The better you get, the cheaper it becomes and the more money you make. Funny, that sound a lot like advertising. Next steps. One, decide if using an agency makes sense for you right now. Two, talk to a lot of agencies to get a feel for the market. Don't be cheap. Three, use the agreement framework I outlined. Four, set a clear deadline to force you and your team to learn skills. Five, use both teams until yours beats theirs regularly. Six, switch to discount to consulting until you feel like you're teaching them instead of them teaching you. Then cut him loose. Now that we know how to profit from the high-risisk world of agencies, we explore the lead getter that's made me the most money. We recruit an army of businesses who can get us even more leads. Affiliates. Number four, affiliates and partners. Nothing makes friends like money. December 1st, 2018. I had no idea how the Prestige Labs launch would go. I had no idea if our clients would like it. I had no idea if the technology we built would work. I had no idea if payouts would happen on time. I had no idea if our warehouse would mess up orders. But I did know over a year of preparation went into this launch. We put everything we had into creating a top tier product. We spent over $1 million custom building affiliate software and training. And we bought $3 million in inventory for sales that may never happen. It took every business skill I had to make Prestige Labs real. And in just a few hours, we would roll it out to our gym owner affiliates. I felt like a kid on Christmas Eve. And if it didn't work, it wouldn't be for lack of effort. Author note, the game podcast episode 98, I remember. If you want to go back in time, you can hear Young Me talk about my thoughts/ concerns the night before the launch. You can be right there with me. It's episode 98 on my podcast again with Alex Hormoszi titled I remember. This is before I knew the success it would become. To find it, just go wherever you listen to podcasts and search Alex Hormoszi and it'll come up. Launch day. I finished the two-hour presentation soaked in sweat. It's done. I sold the opportunity to sell my supplement line at their gyms. I would train the new affiliates to promote Prestige Labs at their gyms. So, for this to work, they would have to go through the training and use it. But if they did, everyone would profit. I had no idea if it would work. 3 weeks later, we made $150,000 in total sales. Meanwhile, $3 million worth of product sat in an aironditioned warehouse. It didn't work. At this rate, including operating costs and affiliate payouts, it would take 5 years to break even. Even if we could stick it out, our premium product would expire well before then. We were all but screwed. I felt miserable. It was terrible. Who am I to think we would sell all that stuff? I just wasted millions. How could I be so stupid? But on the fourth week, something wild happened. Boom. $100,000 on Monday. Boom. $110,000 on Tuesday. Boom. $92,000. On Wednesday, we did over $450,000 in sales. The fourth week alone. The trend continued. We average more than 300 orders per day across 400 plus active affiliates. Orders just kept coming in. Check out the snapshot of our internal report below. It shows from left to right revenue by week. I couldn't believe the results. Sometimes I still can't. The best part is I didn't advertise or sell any of the products at all. No paid ads, no sales team, nothing. The affiliates did everything. And the affiliate machine I built still prints money to this day. So, if that sounds like something you're interested in, hang tight because I'm going to show you exactly how I built it. How affiliates work. An affiliate is a lead getter. They're an independent business that tells their audience to buy your stuff. Affiliates seem like referrals on the outside, but are much different under the hood. First, they have their own businesses and do their own advertising. Second, they agree to offer your stuff to their engaged leads in exchange for money, free stuff, or both. Now, you get affiliates by advertising and then making them offers just like you would customers. But affiliates demand a unique type of offer. Instead of offering your product, you offer a fast, simple, and easy way to make commissions promoting it. And that can mean literally millions of engaged leads to your business. So this makes affiliates one of the highest leverage lead getters out there. Why you want an affiliate army? Each affiliate you get adds another stream of leads and customers. So recruiting, activating, then integrating with an army of affiliates causes crazy scaling fast. That's good. We want that. Compare these two scenarios. Scenario number one. You sell 10 customers per month worth $10,000 each. Your business caps at $100,000 per month. In 12 months, you've made 1.2 million. Assuming no other advertising, your business plateaus. Low leverage. Scenario number two. For the same effort, you sell 10 affiliates per month. Each month, those affiliates bring you one of those $10,000 customers. Now, every single month, you add an extra $100,000 in revenue. In 12 months, you've made 7.8 8 million and it grows every month thereafter. Same work, more money, high leverage. Let's use Allen, my software company I grew with affiliates to show how this works in the real world. Allen grew with three levels of affiliates. One, agency super affiliates who brought agency leads. Two, agencies who brought local business leads. Three, local businesses who brought end consumer leads. One super affiliate added 10 agencies per month. The 10 agencies brought in a combined 50 or so local businesses per month. Those local businesses brought in a combined 2,500 leads per month. Allan worked those leads for about $5 a pop. A cool $12,500 per month, but didn't stop there. Each super affiliate brought in more agencies who brought in more local businesses who brought more leads every month after that. So every super affiliate we signed on brought in $12,500 the first month, $25,000 the second, $37,500 the third, and so on. With only a few agency super affiliates, we scaled to $1,700,000 per month within 6 months of launching. That's why you want an affiliate army. So, let's build one. How to build an affiliate army in six steps. Affiliates are among the most advanced ways to get engaged leads. First, you have to convince them to advertise someone else's stuff. Second, you have to convince them to advertise your stuff. Third, you have to keep them advertising to make them a long-term lead source. It seems like a lot, and it is, but I have good news. I've built two companies with affiliates, Allen and Prestige Labs. Together, they have done more than $75 million in revenue from over 5,000 plus affiliates. And the affiliate strategies I share worked for me, so they can work for you. I'll break down each step. Step one, find your ideal affiliates. Step two, make them an offer. Step three, qualify them. Step four, figure out what to pay them. Step five, get them advertising. Step six, keep them advertising. That's it. Let's dive in. Step one, find your ideal affiliate. The ideal affiliate has a business with a warm audience full of people like your customers. Start making a list of those businesses. If none come to mind, answer these questions about your best customers. What do they buy? Who provides that stuff? Where do they go? What businesses are in those surrounding areas? What do they like to do? Who provides those services? If direct to consumer, the employers of your consumers could make great affiliates. What types of businesses do they work for? What kind of jobs do they have? In a nutshell, who's got my leads? For example, when I started Allen, agency owners were my ideal affiliate. So, I made a list of 200 products and services for agencies and the businesses that delivered them. After a little bit of work, I realized they fit pretty neatly into categories: softwares, products, equipment, services, groups they belong to, and events they attended. Every time I create a new affiliate hit list, I start with these categories. Note, if you find a business that falls into multiple categories, there's a high chance they've got lots of good leads for you and that they'd make a great affiliate. Now that I knew the businesses that had my leads, I knew exactly where to put my advertising efforts. It wasn't fancy, so don't overthink it. Action step. Make a sheet with each of these questions and categories. Search online to fill it in. If you struggle, call up your customers and ask them. End result, create a lead list of your highest potential affiliates. Step two, make them an offer. We make the affiliate offer and advertise it the same way we would any other offer. We call out our audience, show our value elements, and then call them to action. But affiliates will only sign up with us if we give them a strong reason. Thankfully, it's pretty simple. Since affiliates are businesses or start a business by signing up, you offer them a new way to make money. We'll start with a call out. Call out. Call outs for potential affiliates often include the affiliate business owners themselves. Attention SBA owners, the affiliates, customers. Do you work with busy professionals who spend all day in meetings? Results. The affiliate businesses promise to the heroes who heal the stress of others. products and services the affiliates deliver. If you sell lotions or scented oils, this is for you to our own customers. Do you know anyone who owns a spa? Now that we can grab a potential affiliate's attention, let's make it worth their while. Elements of value. There's an unlimited number of ways to show value, but all money-making offers follow a similar structure. That's good news. We don't need to reinvent the wheel. Most affiliate money making offers show value like this. Make more money from your current customers and get more leads than your current offer. Dream outcome with a high chance of working since your customers already want the product. Perceived likelihood of achievement without needing to build, deliver, or provide customer support for the product yourself. Effort and sacrifice so you can start selling it tomorrow. Time delay. Action step. Explore th