# Part 6 of 20

anged my life forever. If getting weird messages and hate from people I don't know is the price I have to pay to make the impact I want to have, I'd pay that price any day of the week. I felt exposed. I was being a pansy. I claimed I wanted to make the impact but wasn't willing to pay the price for it. After that conversation, Leila and I went all in on building personal brands. I have a core belief. I'd like a transfer to you. If someone is making more money than you, they are better at the game of business in some way. Take it as good news. It means you can learn from them. Don't think they had it easy. Don't think they had a shortcut. Don't tell yourself they broke some moral code. Even if it's true, none of those beliefs serve you. None of those beliefs make you better. Years ago, I was vocal about making content. I didn't see the point. Why would I waste my time making something that would disappear in a few days? I thought it was a stupid waste of time and let everyone know I was wrong. It really wasn't about the content at all. It was about the audience. What I didn't understand was the content you create isn't the compounding asset. The audience is. So even though the content may disappear in time, your audience keeps growing. This was a lesson my ego prevented me from learning for too long. It took an entire year of getting hit in the face with solid evidence before I changed my ways. Building an audience is the most valuable thing I've ever done. I saw Kylie Jenner, Huda Katon, Conor McGregor, and The Rock become billionaires overnight. My famous friend said a massive audience was crucial to his success. The overwhelming evidence broke my beliefs, so I rewrote them. I now saw the power of having an audience, but I didn't know where to start. So, I did what I always do. I paid for knowledge. Buying somebody else's experience saves the time it would take to figure everything out yourself. Ila bought me four calls with a big influencer who had the type of audience I wanted to build. She paid $120,000. On my first call, he told me to post regularly on every platform. So that's what I did. 12 months later, my audience grew by more than 200,000 people. On my second call, he noted the progress, but I wanted more. Do you have a blueprint for your personal branding? How do you put out all that content? He said, "Bro, anyone telling you there's some secret is trying to sell you something? We just put out as much as we possibly can. Pull up your Instagram and pull up my Instagram. Look, you've posted once today. I posted three times. Pull up your LinkedIn. Look, you posted once this week. I posted five times today." He went platform by platform. I grew more embarrassed with each comparison. You just got to do more, bro. Simple, not easy. Over the next 6 months, I put out 10 times the content. And over the next 6 months, I added 1.2 people to my audience. Also, when I put out 10 times the content, my audience grew 10 times as fast. Volume works. Content works. A growing audience is the result. And in this chapter, I'll break down how I did it so you can too. How building an audience works. You post great free content. Warm reachouts don't get a lot of engaged leads for the time we invest. If we want to reach 10 people, we have to repeat ourselves 10 times. Lots of effort. By posting free content, we can say it once and reach all 10. So posting free content can get a lot more engaged leads for the time we invest. Hooray. The people who think it's valuable become part of your warm audience. If they think other people will find it valuable, they share it. And if the people they share it with like it, they become part of your warm audience, too. Rinse and repeat. The sharing can go on infinitely. The more they share your stuff, the larger your warm audience gets. And once in a while, you'll make them an offer. If your offer has enough value, they'll take it. When they do, you make money. And the bigger the audience, the more money you make. Look at it this way. Posting free content grows your warm audience. So, constantly posting free content means you'll have a constantly growing audience of people more likely to buy your stuff. Free content makes all other advertising more effective. If you reach out to someone and they can't find content related to your services, they're less likely to buy. On the other hand, if they find lots of valuable content, they are more likely to buy. This is what my ego prevented me from learning. Now, the headlines with Jenner, Huda, McGregor, and The Rock all made perfect sense. But posting free content is not all sunshine and rainbows. It has trade-offs. First, it is more difficult to personalize your message, so fewer people respond. Second, you compete with everyone else posting free content. This makes it harder to stand out. Third, if you do stand out, people will copy you. This means you need to constantly innovate. That being said, a bigger audience means more engaged leads. More engaged leads means more money. More money means you more happy. Just kidding. It won't do that. But it'll give you the resources to remove stuff you hate. Anyways, this chapter covers only two topics. First, we demystify audience growing content by showing it's all made of the same basic units. A content unit has three components. Hook, retain, and reward. Second, how linking basic units together will make audience growing content for any platform or media type. The next chapter, post-free content, part two, shows you how to weaponize this content to make money. But for now, you can't monetize content until you know how to make it. The content unit, three components. All audience growing content does one thing. It rewards the people consuming it and a person can only get rewarded by the content if they one have a reason to consume it and two pay attention long enough to three get that reason satisfied. Thankfully we can reverse those three outcomes into the three things we have to do to make audience growing content. This means we have to A hook attention, get them to notice your content, b ret retain attention, get them to consume it. C reward attention, satisfy the reason they consumed it to begin with. The smallest amount of material it takes to hook, retain, and reward attention is a content unit. It could be as little as an image, a meme, or a sentence. Meaning, you can hook, retain, and reward at the same time. This is how short tweets, meme images, or even a jingle can go viral. They do all three. I separate them so we can discuss them more clearly, but they can all happen at once. Let's dive into each of the things we do to create a content unit. This way, you can create effective content that grows your audience. One, hook. They cannot be rewarded unless we first get their attention. The objective. We give them a reason to redirect their attention from whatever they are doing towards us. If we do that, we've hooked them. The effectiveness of your hook is measured by the percentage of people who start consuming your content. So, if you hook attention well, many people will have a reason to consume your content. If you do a poor job, few people will have a reason to consume your content. Remember, this is a competition for attention. We have to beat every alternative they have to win theirs. Make yourself the best option. We increase the percentage of people who pick our content by picking topics they find interesting, headlines that give them a reason, and matching the format of other stuff they like. Let's dive into each. Topics. Topics are the things you make your content about. I prefer to use personal experiences. Here's why. There's only one of you. The easiest way to differentiate is to say something no one else can say, and no one else has lived your life but you. I divide topics into five categories. Far past, recent past, present, trending, and manufactured. A far past, the important past lessons in your life. Connect that wisdom to your product or service to provide huge value to your audience. Give [snorts] them the story without the scar. It's why I write these books. One example, a personal lesson where I broke my belief that I don't have enough time. One, hook. I complained to a friend that I didn't have enough time to do something while glued to my phone. Two, retain. They yanked it out of my hands and looked at its usage. It showed I spent 3 hours per day on social media. Three, reward. They looked back at me and said, "Hey, I found you some time." It's a simple story other people can relate to. This makes it an interesting topic to more people. And it connects what I do, growing businesses, to a struggle many people experience, not having enough time. The epiphany I give away makes this less valuable for my audience. People starting, growing, and selling their businesses. B. Recent past. Do stuff, then talk about what you did or what happened. Anytime you speak with somebody, there's a chance your audience can get value from it. Look at your calendar for the last week. Look at all your meetings. Look at all your social interactions. Look at all your conversations with warm reachouts. There's gold in these conversations. Tell stories from them that would serve your audience. For example, one, this tweet came from a meeting I had with a portfolio CEO that was just copying the same offer everyone else in his market was making and was getting subpar results. Two, this means taking notes, recordings, and other records to make that stuff easy to access. But it also means a free, easy, and valuable stash of content. Three, testimonials and case studies fall in this category. If you can tell a cool client story in a way that provides value to your audience, you'll both promote your services and provide value. Win-win. C. Present. Write down ideas at the exact time they come to you. Always have a way to record your ideas in arms reach. I'll even pause meetings to make note of text or email ideas to myself. People don't mind when you ask to take notes anyway, so it's not weird. Then when you make content, you have a bucket of fresh stories to work with. One, I know my ideas publicly. I used to keep ideas to myself. Now, I tweet them publicly as they happen. If a post does better than normal, I know it's something people find interesting. Then I make more stuff on that topic. D. Trending. Go where the attention is. Look at what's trending right now and make stuff about it. Apply your own experiences to it. If you have relevant commentary or it touches your expertise in some way, talk about it. Talking about trendy stuff is very effective for gaining the attention of a broader audience. E. Manufactured. Turn your ideas into reality. Pick a topic people find interesting. Then learn about it. Make it or do it. then show it to the world. This costs the most time and effort since you have to create the experience versus talking about one you already had, but it can have the biggest payouts. One example, manufacturer experience. I lived on $100 for a month. Here's how. Now, I don't live that way, but I could manufacture that experience, then make content about it. Author note, manufactured versus documenting. Manufactured content has the most potential to grow and monetize an audience by far. This is because skilled content creators can engineer the maximum reward for every content unit. To give you an idea, as of this writing, the top 10 videos on the most popular video platform are all music videos, and they've racked up about 60 billion views watching or listening. That's a lot of attention. But for us mortals, the lower cost of documenting our experiences versus manufacturing them lets us keep the volume high. And I believe it's more sustainable over a lifetime. A quote I heard from a famous content creator, I don't want to be filling my living room with sand when I'm 50. And personally, I'd rather see entrepreneurs put out more content more often and in more places. Just one man's two cents. Action step. Life happens. profit by sharing yours. Headlines. A headline is a short phrase or sentence used to grab the audience's attention. It communicates the reason they should consume the content. They use it to weigh the likelihood they will get a reward for consuming your content versus another. Rather than give you a bunch of templates, I'd rather give you the timeless principles that make great headlines. And there's no greater headline creator than the news. So, let's study them. A metaanalysis of news revealed headline components that drove the most interest in stories. They are as follows. Try and include at least two in your headline. Recency. As recent as possible, quite literally the news. Example, people pay attention to something that happened an hour ago, more than a year ago. Relevancy, personally meaningful. Example, nurses pay more attention to stuff that affects nurses compared to stuff that affects accountants. Celebrity including prominent people, celebrities, authorities, etc. Example. Normally, we wouldn't care what another human has for breakfast every day. But if it's Jeff Bezos, we do. Since he's a celebrity, many people care. Proximity, close to home, geographically. Example, a house on fire across the country doesn't get your attention. If it's your neighbor, it sure does. Make it as close to home as possible. Conflict of opposing ideas, opposing people, nature, etc. Example, pineapple versus no pineapple on pizza. Conflict. Example, good versus evil, hero versus villain. Left versus right. Example, freedom versus security. Justice versus mercy. You get the idea. Unusual, odd, unique, rare, bizarre. Example, think of a six-fingered man at the oldtime circuses. If it's outside of the norm, people pay more attention. Ongoing stories still in progress are dynamic, evolving, and have plot twists. Example, if someone goes into labor, people want updates every 10 minutes because anything could happen. Action step. Include one or more of these components to give yourself meteor attention-grabbing headlines. Format. Once we have a good topic and communicate it with a headline using one or more components, we need to match our format to the best content on the platform. People consume content because it's similar to stuff they've liked in the past. And matching the popular format of the platform gets the most people to interact with it. So, we want to make our content look like the stuff they've liked before. Format example. This meme communicates the point better than I can with words. All four images above are all images, but they have a different look and feel. This is because formatting depends on the audience you want to hook and the platform your audience is on. Bottom line, you got to make your content look like what they expect will reward them. Otherwise, no matter how good it is, better-l looking content will hook them before yours even has a chance. Action step, format your content for the platform first, then tweak it so it hooks your ideal audience. Use the best content on the platform that targets your market as your guide. This concludes the hook step of our content unit. Always following these basics will already put you in the top 1%. At least it has for me. Two, retain. My favorite driver of retention is curiosity. It's my favorite because if done correctly, people will wait years. People want to know what happens next. For example, I get messages daily for years now about when I will release a book on sales. My favorite way to get the audience curious is to embed questions in their minds. Unresolved questions can be explicit or implicit. You can directly ask the question or the question can be implied. My three favorite ways to embed questions are lists, steps, and stories. A lists. Lists are things, facts, tips, opinions, ideas, etc. presented one after the other. Good lists and free content also follow a theme. Think top 10 mistakes or five biggest money makers and so on. Giving the number of listed items in your headline or in the first few seconds of your content tells people what to expect. And in my experience, this retains more the audience's attention for longer. One example, seven ways I invested $1,000 in my 20s that paid off big. Two example, 28 ways to stay poor. Three example, a content unit has three pieces. B. Steps. Steps are actions that occur in order and accomplish a goal when completed. Provided the early steps were clear and valuable, the person will want to know how to do them all to accomplish the overall goal. One example, three steps to creating a great hook. Two example, how I create a headline in seven steps. Three example, the morning routine that boosts my productivity. Note, here's the difference between steps and lists. Steps are actions that must be done in a specific order to get a result. So steps are less flexible but have a more explicit reward. Lists can have just about anything on them in any order you want. So lists are more flexible but have a less explicit reward. C. Stories. Stories describe events, real or imaginary. And stories worth telling often have some lesson or takeaway for the listener. You can tell stories about things that have happened, might happen, or will never happen. All three drive curiosity because people want to know what happens next. One example, almost every chapter in this book has a story. Two example, my editor made me do 19 drafts of this book. Here's what I did to him. Three example, my journey from sleeping on the bottom floor of a gym to the top floor of a five-star hotel. You can use lists, steps, and stories on their own or interweave them. For example, you could have lists within steps and a story about each list item. You can have stories to reinforce the value of a step. You could have a list of stories or many ongoing story lines, etc. Your creativity is the only limit here. That's why people who make a lot of content call themselves content creators. This chapter, for example, has lists within steps and stories interweaving them. Action step. Use lists, steps, and stories to keep your audience curious. Embed questions in their minds to make them want to know what happens next. Three, reward. Anyone can think of cool hooks and organize their content using lists, steps, or stories. But the real question is, is it good? Does it satisfy the reason they watch to begin with? Does it make people want to share it? How good your content is depends on how often it rewards your audience in the time it takes them to consume it. Think value per second. For example, the same person who gets bored 3 seconds into a 10-second video may also binge a 900page book. And that same person may binge a television series for 8 hours straight. So, there is no such thing as too long, only too boring. Now, we can't guarantee a specific reward, but we can increase the chance reward happens by hooking the right audience with proper topics, headlines, and formatting, retaining them with lists, steps, and stories to get them curious and wanting more. Clearly, satisfying the reason the content hooked them to begin with. Example, if your hook promises seven ways to make up with your spouse and you give a four ways be seven ways that stunk or they've heard them all before. See, you're talking to a room of single guys who don't have spouses. You did a bad job of rewarding. People will not want to watch again and certainly won't share it. Example, if your hook promises four marketing strategies dentists can use and they can't use them, they will not share it or watch your content in the future. You did a bad job of rewarding. Bottom line, I've had tons of content I thought would smash records, but the audience smashed the next button instead. So, no matter how good you think your content is, the audienc