# Part 19 of 20

up on his free LLC offer. That's his lead magnet. Integrate. Once affiliates see the success of a launch, they integrate his lead magnet into their core offer. Then my friend's team gets on the phone with the customers his affiliates bring him for free. Here's how he makes his money. He sells them what they'll need next. The services they'll need to start their business. Bookkeeping, tax preparation, etc. He hasn't spent a dollar on paid ads. His true advertising costs are two things. One, delivering his free lead magnet, the LLC setup, and two, paying a percentage of every first sale to the affiliates that sent them. That's it. And everybody wins. Physical products case study number two, Prestige Labs, my supplement company. We sell gym owners at gym launch and train them how to advertise and sell their gym memberships. Prestige Labs has a line of supplements for active adults. This makes Gym Launch a perfect affiliate for Prestige Labs. It has a community of gym owners that also have active adult customers. So when Gym Launch sells a new gym owner, they introduce the new gym owners to Prestige Labs. Then the Prestige Labs team follows the launch then integrate strategy above. We really do this launch. We give the gym owners advertising materials so they can re-engage their current and former customers. We focus on warm outreach and posting free content for a free 28-day challenge. When they come in for the free challenge, gym owners sell them supplements to use with the program. The gym owner gets more customers. They make money. We make money. Everyone wins. Integrate. After the launch, we teach them to sell supplements to every new gym member. So, when new clients buy a membership package, the gym owner sets up a nutrition orientation. At the nutrition orientation, the gym owner sells them 50 to $1,000 of supplements. So, if a gym signs up 20 clients per month and gets 70% of them to buy supplements, we get 14 new customers per month per gym. It doesn't sound like much, but when you multiply 4,000 gyms x14 new sales per month x $200 average order equals a lot of money every month. Local business case study number three, chiropractors. Chiropractors want new patients and a portfolio company of ours teaches them to use an affiliate strategy to get them. Their model is simple. Go to high volume businesses that have people that are in need of adjustments. A gym fits the bill nicely. Here's what they do. Launch. They get the gym owner to promote a three-hour workshop where they show correct exercises and posture to get more from their workouts. The gym owner promotes the workshop for free or sells the workshop for $29 to $99 per person. The chiropractor splits the money with the gym owner. Hint, if you give the affiliate gym owner, in this case 100% of the money, they'll want to do it more. So, if a gym gets 30 people to show up for $99, they make $2,970 profit for zero work besides a few emails and posts. At the workshop, the chiropractor soft pitches their services and gets a bucket of new patients. Easy peasy lemon squeezy. Integrate. Long-term. The chiropractor convinces the gym owner to include one to two adjustments with every new membership the gym signs up. This increases the value of the gym membership compared to the guy down the street. And it shows the gym prioritizes its member's health and safety, a big concern for beginners. Win-win. Now, every new gym member becomes a lead for the chiropractor to follow up with. They repeat this process with 30 gyms and get more patients than they can handle. Pro tip, employees are leads, too. Companies that hire a lot of people make great affiliates. This is huge for direct to consumer businesses and wildly underused. Example, every new hire at a company gets a free massage in their new employee packet. Or you can give free massages to their employees at lunch. It's free. It's easy. And lots of companies want to provide more value to their teams. They get free value. You get free leads. And since they're probably not in the same business as you, there's no risk of you competing with theirs. So employers, it can be among the easiest affiliates to integrate with. Costs and returns. Affiliates can't work for my business. The loser said, "I have to make affiliates work for my business," the winner said. Be a winner. When calculating returns with other methods, we compared lifetime gross profit, LTGP, with cost to acquire a customer, CAC. So we spend money to get customers and the customers in a profitable business give us more money back. Affiliates work differently. We spend money to get affiliates, sure, but we don't really make much back from affiliates themselves. Instead, the money we spend to get an affiliate comes back from the customers they bring us. So, to calculate returns, we compare how much it costs us to get an affiliate with the gross profit of all the customers they send to our business. Example, let's say we own a widget company that grows with affiliates. It costs us $4,000 in advertising to get an affiliate. Our average affiliate sells $10,000 in widgets per month and stays for 12 months. $10,000 per month x 12 months equals $120,000 total sales. The widgets have 75% gross margins. In other words, they cost 25% of retail price to make. $120,000 total sales. X 25% cost of goods equals $30,000 total cost of goods. $120,000 total sales, $30,000 total cost of goods equals $90,000 in gross profit from all the customers the affiliate brings. We pay affiliates 40% of the gross profit. $90,000 gross profit x 40% payout equals $36,000 to the affiliate as payment. Here's the gross profit we have left after cost of goods and payouts. $120,000 total, $30,000 costs, $36,000 payouts equals $54,000 left over. Let's find our affiliate LTGP to CAC ratio. $54,000 gross profit left/ $4,000 to gain affiliate equals 12.51. Not too shabby. If you recall from earlier, we need to be at least at 3 col 1 to have a decent business. Like the example, we want the ratio even higher than that. 5:1 10 to 1 plus. Now, if we had these numbers, we just do more. But if your actual LTGP CAC is less than three, here are the three ways to improve it. One, lower CAC. We get affiliates for less by improving our ads, offer, and sales process. Two, increase LTGP and decrease CAC. Get more to activate by creating a launch process. Three, increase LTGP. We make them worth more by improving our integration process. With affiliates, you now have at least two layers of customers. Your customers and the people who get you customers. And if you've got super affiliates, you add a third. The people who get you, the people who get you customers. This adds complexity, but if you can manage it, it's worth it. Now that you understand how to use affiliates to advertise and how to make them more profitable, let's bring it all home. Conclusion: Like referrals, affiliates aren't an advertising method you can do. There are people who advertise your stuff to benefit you both. You do the core for to get them. And if you want them to love you, then you treat them like customers. Because in a lot of ways, they are. And if you deliver more value to them than it costs them to get it, especially hidden costs, they'll get you more leads than you can handle. And like we learned earlier, there are two ways to create a compounding business. You can find more people that never stop buying your stuff, or you can find more people who never stop selling it for you. Referrals are the former, affiliates are the latter. In theory, once you build an affiliate army, you never need to advertise again. They keep getting you leads month after month. The main reason it makes sense for them, the way you do business, your leadership, and the value of your product all come into play. You're only as good as the goodwill you have with your affiliate partners. Arrange it right. And you should both be better off in a relationship. They should be able to spend more to acquire customers through a more compelling offer, higher profits, or both. And in return, you get more engaged leads. So why doesn't everyone do this? They don't know it's possible. They don't know how or they don't want to. Simple as that. Hopefully, we solved all three of those issues at once. Remember, advertising always works. It's only a matter of efficiency. So, once you start, keep going until it works. Action steps. Advertise your affiliate offer until you get 10 to 20 affiliates. Get results with those affiliates and use their feedback to work the kinks out of your offer, terms, launches, and integration strategy. Then scale like crazy by turning their results into your first batch of affiliate lead magnets. Section four, conclusion. Get lead getters. The last skill you ever need to learn is how to get other people to do everything you need for you. We do the core four to get engaged leads. warm outreach, post content, cold outreach, and paid ads. And we use them to get two types of engaged leads. The ones that become customers or the ones we turn into lead getters. Lead getters come in four flavors. Refer, employees, agencies, and affiliates. Each have key strengths. Customer referrals have the biggest potential for lowcost exponential growth. Employees have your direct influence and run your business on your behalf. Agencies teach skills you keep forever and can transfer to your team. Affiliates, once you get them going, can operate entirely on their own. You can either do the advertising or other people can. And there are more other people than there are of you. You get more leads for the work you do when you have help. So, if you want to get a ton of leads, this is the way. Maybe your head is officially spinning now that you understand these advertising methods. You see leads everywhere you look. We have so many ways to grow and you'd be right. But you don't know which one to focus on. Any or all of these lead methods can underpin a successful lead getting strategy. And I put them in the order of what happens naturally. If you start on your own, you tend to get your first referrals before you start building a big team. And when you start building a big team, employees, you'll probably start looking for professional help, agencies. And only when a business owner has a handle on managing people inside of their business do they tend to get the guts to try and manage people outside their business, affiliates. In any case, you have to forget the idea that everything is going to work out the first time. If you think you're going to become a millionaire the first year you go out on your own, you're probably wrong. It's very unlikely. And an obsession with getting rich quick will likely ensure it never happens. People try shortcuts for a decade until they realize they should have picked a strategy and stuck with it for a decade. If you do that, success is inevitable. Once you find something that works for you, stick to what you pick. Those are the best words of encouragement I can offer. The longer you play the game, the better you will get and the more success you will have. Just don't quit or switch methods after seeing a few losses. It's normal to lose in the beginning. In fact, I expect to crack a new lead source in 3 to 6 months, and this isn't my first rodeo. So, if your expectations are faster than that, do you think your expectations are reasonable? We covered a lot here. This section was how you scale, you get other people to help you. They're the missing link. Each has their own strategy and best practices. Use what applies to you. Now, this leads us to section five, get started. I want to put everything together for you in a nice bow so you know exactly what to do next. Together, we'll eliminate leads as the bottleneck in your business forever. Onwards. Section five. Get started. It's not the end. It's not even the beginning of the end, but it is perhaps the end of the beginning. Winston Churchill. June 2017. 3 months after we lost it all again and switch gym launch to licensing. Hey, what do you make of this? I asked, "What's up?" I gave her my phone. "Mr. and Mrs. Hormoszi, we cordially invite you to a private event for entrepreneurs earning 8 figures and up. Let me know if you're interested. Seems cool," she said. "But we're not making 8 figures." I pretended not to hear her. "You want to go?" "Sure. Is it included in our mentorship dues?" One sec, I'll ask. An email response came a moment later. No, this is an additional fee. It is a two-day event limited to 10 people at a private resort. Nope, I said. Huh? Can we afford to go? Ouch. Who cares? We can't afford not to go. 10 days, a long flight, and a short drive later. We made it. The cool kids meet up. I had one goal, to add as much value as I could to everyone else in the room. But the moment I walked in, I knew I was out of my league. I recognized almost everyone there. They were famous in the advertising world. They all spoke at huge events, signed autographs, made millions. Then there was me. I wasn't an 8 figureure entrepreneur. I was a kid from Baltimore just paying to breathe everyone else's air. Once everyone settled, we had a short housekeeping discussion and then got down to business. This way of doing things was a sharp contrast to the big stages. booming sound systems, flashing lights, and other theatrics that real events have. The first speaker was ready to go. He had a man bun and loose yo-yish clothing. He looked like a hippie, but then he opened with how he was only doing $3 million per month. Is this for real? I felt like a fraud. The numbers he shared with such a casual attitude blew my mind. How is this possible? He continued on with his talk using all sorts of business advertising and tech jargon. He pointed to dizzying charts and graphs. I came here to learn more about advertising but felt dumber by the second. I recognized enough of the words to realize I knew nothing useful about them. His presentation went way over my head. I started sweating bullets. Ila grabbed my hand. We both felt stressed and out of our depths. He finished and finally opened up for a Q&A. Excellent. But the questions were still at the same level as his presentation. Nope. I'm still doomed. Then an awkward voice cracked. So, uh, what courses are you taking to learn all this stuff? Now we're talking. I leaned in, pen in hand. His answer changed my life. At this point, I don't expect to learn anything new from courses. I have to learn by doing. And I do by spending a percentage of my revenue to test new campaigns, new channels, new pages, or just plain crazy ideas. And I learn something every time I test. So, the money is well spent. Whenever one of these tests is a winner, and some are, it's a big deal. I learn something amazing and make far more money than I spent. It raises the bar for my business and more importantly myself. So whether it's 1%, 5% or 10%, set some percentage of your advertising budget aside to try new things without expecting a return. Consider it an investment in your education. I felt chills go through me like some judgment demon left my body. He gave me permission to fail. None of this is magic. If he can do this, so can I. The next week, I tripled my advertising budget. Yes, it was a bit aggressive, but my mindset had completely changed. I'd either make more or get better. Our business went from $400,000 in June to $780,000 in July. From there, my cost to get customers went up too high. So, I tried new audiences. Most failed. Then I hit boom. We cruised past $1 million to $1.2 million to $1.5 million per month. Then I realized we didn't follow up with our engaged leads at all. We tested email, didn't work. We tested phone calls, nothing. Then I tried text blasts. Wham! We zoomed to $1.8 million the next month. From there, we tested paid ads like crazy. We made way more of them and put more focus on their production value. Boom. We cruised past $2.5 million per month. Then we launched our affiliate program and stacked another $1.5 million per month on top. That took us past $4 million per month. Years later, our portfolio now does more than $16 million per month. So, test until you find something that works. Take massive action. Stay focused. Double down on it until it breaks. Then test until you find a next thing that works and double down on that. Taking these leaps are the only way to unlock the business you want and the life that comes with it. And maybe slay your judgment demon, too. So, from now on, you either win or you learn. the end of the beginning. Your speed to making big money depends on how fast you learn the skills to making big money. Getting more engaged leads with the skills of advertising is a great start to making more money. In fact, if you make any amount of money, more engaged leads will make you even more. And sadly, those skills take time to learn. So, I share my experiences to shave years off your time. To shorten the gap between no money and mo money, it's time to make it happen. Outline of the get started section. This final section has three chapters. They are short and sweet, just like our time together. In the first chapter, advertising in real life. I'll lay out my one big advertising rule. Then I'll give you my personal one-page advertising plan you can use to get more engaged leads today. In the next chapter, putting it all together, I'll lay out the road map to scale from your first few leads all the way to your $100 million leads machine. Finally, a decade in page, I'll distill everything we learned in a bullets to show how far we've come in our time together. Then, to send you on your way, I'll share a parable that has gotten me through even my hardest times. Advertising in real life, open to goal. If some is good, more is better. June 2014 when I launched my first gym. I used the same paid ads I used at Sam's gym for way back and they worked for a while. Over time, the cost started creeping up. I got less leads for the same money, but I still needed more customers. I wasn't sure what to do. I talked to a mentor who ran a chain of tanning salons for some advice. He said, "Before all this fancy internet stuff, flyers crushed for us. You should try those. So, try them." We did. We printed 300. Over the next day, we put them on cars in areas close to the gym. A day passed. Nothing. The next day, the phone rang. Finally. Hey, you put a flyer on my car. My heart raced. It worked. Yes. Yes, I did. How can I? But before I could finish, he interrupted right back. Yeah, you scratched my Mercedes crap. You're going to need to pay for I panicked and hung up the phone. He called back. I let it ring. He never called again. That was the only call I got from the Flyers. No leads, nothing. Universe one, Alex zero. A few weeks later, I sat in the lobby of my gym waiting for customers to fall into my lap. Feeling bored and a bit frustrated, I called the mentor with the bright idea to put out flyers. Hey, Alex. How's it going? Not too good. Why? What's up? We put out the flyers like you said. Oh, yeah. How many leads you get from him? None. Hm, that's odd. He paused. What was your test size? What do you mean? You know how many did you put out? I put out 300, I said in a resentful tone. Shoot. You only put out 300? Hard to know if anything works with such a small number. I test with 5,000. Then when we find a winner, we put out 5,000 per day, every day for a month. 5,000? He tests with almost 17 times more than my entire campaign. And he does it in a single day. I felt like the person who says exercise doesn't work after going to the gym one time. And I hate that person. I mean, what kind of response did you think you're going to get? He chuckled. If we get half a percent, that's decent. If we get 1%, that's a winner. With 300 flyers, half a percent w