# Part 16 of 20

o, your business went from having almost zero value to having $10 million of value. So, learning how to get other people to do it for you makes a $10 million difference to your net worth. I'd say it's worth learning how to do it. Reminder, you get rich from what you make. You become wealthy from what you own. And it took me years to realize this because not that long ago, everything I thought I knew about employees was wrong. Have you ever heard if you want it done right, you got to do it yourself? No one can do it like I do it. Nobody can replace me. I have. I said all that stuff. I lived all that stuff for years. Every time I hired somebody, I would compare what they could to what I could do. In my head, I felt like it was me against them to somehow prove I it was the more able one with my own team. And this belief, this way of leading people never made me more money. For business, nobody can do it but me. And if you want something done right, you got to do it yourself. Aren't facts, they're false. Somebody did similar stuff before you were around. And somebody will continue doing some version of it after you're gone in one way or another. Everyone is replaceable. It might be by multiple people, technology, or later in time, but everyone can be replaced. My suggestion, replace yourself as soon as you can. Then you can make yourself useful somewhere else. Many other people figured this out, and so can you. In the early days, whenever I started a business, I could do stuff better than the people I hired. My entire workforce always ended up looking like a ragtag group of misfits who could kind of do one of the many things I could do. This got me up and running at first, but I fell into the trap of believing I was better than everyone else. I would go back and forth between gloating because I was better than them and complaining because they weren't as good as me. And for whatever reason, it never occurred to me I was the one who hired and trained them. Who was I kidding? The reality was twofold. First, I didn't have the skills to train or lead a team properly. Second, I was too poor. And then, when I had a little money, too cheap to hire anyone better. In other words, it was my fault they sucked. Oops. The more I tried to out compete my employees, the more distracted I became and the worse my business got. Sure, at the time maybe I could do anything better than any of my employees, but I couldn't do everything better than all my employees. And when I finally realized this, I started adopting better beliefs about talent. If you want it done right, get someone to spend all their time doing it. If I can do it, someone else can do it better. Everyone is replaceable, especially me. These new beliefs about talent not only made a much healthier culture in my businesses, but also came with very profitable side effects. Trusting my employees to succeed made my time and attention far more valuable. If somebody else could do it, why would I? If somebody else could train them, why would I? If I could learn other stuff to grow the business while my team held the four down, it makes way more sense to do that. So, let's do that. How to get employee leads. The internal core four. Remember the core four? Well, they work for getting employees, too. Imagine that. By changing the frame from letting potential customers know about your stuff to letting potential employees know about your stuff, it immediately turns into something you already know how to do. But some people also have the opposite problem. They already know how to get employees just fine, but still struggle to get customers. Employees are just other people you let know about your stuff. So, you do the same thing. Line up the actions to get employees with the actions to get customers. It's the same stuff. Customers, employees, warm outreach, asking your network, cold outreach, recruiting, post content, posting, job openings, paid ads, promoting job postings, customer referrals, employee referrals, affiliations, guilds, list serves, etc. Agencies, staffing firms, etc. Employees, employees, unchanged. The ways you get employee leads and their lead getters have equivalents to the ways you get customer leads and their lead getters. So when you need to get new talent, you just advertise to get it. And when you need more, you do more. And like creating a reliable process to get customers, you can also create a reliable process of getting employees. And you'll need both to scale. How to get employees to get you leads. Now you hire someone who costs you money every month. Great. Let's make sure you make it back and some ASAP. Note, some people looking for work will already know how to get leads. Those people are awesome. You can also count on them to cost more. And if you're starting out, you may not be able to afford them. So, your next best option is to train them. Thankfully, you have an entire book of lead getting at your fingertips. So, the next step is training your employees on how you do those leadetting activities. I think about and actually approach training with this 3DS mental model. Document, demonstrate, duplicate. Here's how it works. Step one, document. You make a checklist. You already know how to do the thing. Now you just need to write down the steps exactly as you do it. You can also have other trusted observers watch you and document what you do. Bonus points if you record yourself doing the thing multiple ways and in multiple shifts. This way, you can watch yourself as an observer rather than breaking your flow by pausing to take notes while you go. Once you've got everything put into the checklist, bust it out on your next work block, and only follow those steps. Can you do an A+ job only following your directions exactly? If you can, you have the first draft of your checklist for the job. Step two, demonstrate. You do it in front of them, just like your parents taught you how to tie your shoes. You sit down and walk them through the checklist step by step. This may take a while depending on how many steps it takes to complete the thing. If they stop you or slow you down to understand something, adjust your checklist for that. Now you have the second draft ready for them to try. Step three, duplicate. They do it in front of you. Now it's their turn. They follow the same checklist you followed, except this time they're the one doing and you're the one observing. We just want them to duplicate what we did. So, if the checklist is right, the outcome will be the same. And if the checklist is off, you'll find out fast. Fix your checklist until it's right. Then have them follow it until they get it right. And once they nail it, you now have a bonafide lead getter on your payroll. Congratulations. Pro tip, give short windows for people to prove themselves. Most entry-level advertising jobs aren't complex. It takes grit more than skill. If you train someone properly and they're still below expectations three weeks in, cut them. After you train your first few employees this way, you'll have worked out the kinks for that job. And it's pretty smooth sailing from there. At least the training part anyways. Think about it this way. If you vanish tomorrow, could a stranger get the results you get if they only followed your checklist? That's the level of clarity to shoot for. Some helpful notes on training. A helpful way to look at this training style is if they get it wrong or get confused, then we got it wrong or made it confusing. If we have to explain what a step means, then the step is too complicated. Or more likely, we try to put multiple steps into one. If they only appear to get it after a longish explanation or multiple demonstrations, then again, we've got some work to do. Business owners that ignore this run into chronic training problems. And word to the wise, you can probably force an inferior checklist of work, but this turns into a nightmare when somebody else takes over your training for you. There is a difference between competence and performance. In other words, they can know exactly what to do and not be that good at it yet. If that's the case, then your instructions are fine and they just need practice. Using an analogy from the fitness world, think slow then smooth then fast. You don't need to change anything. They just need more reps. Focus on your employees ability to follow directions more than whether they get the right result. This is super important because if you train your employees to follow directions, then they will follow directions. And if they follow directions and get the wrong result, then you know it's the directions. That's good. You have a lot more control over that. Every time they do a step successfully, let them know they did it right. And if they respond to praise, praise them. And if they goof, that's okay, too. That's what training is for. Don't take over for them when they mess up. Simply pause, take a step back, and let them try it again. Fast feedback cycles to get people to learn faster. If they follow your directions exactly and get the wrong result, still praise them for following the directions. Praise them. Then make the corrections to your checklist on the spot. Avoid punishment or penalties of any type for doing stuff wrong during training. As a rule of thumb, reward the good stuff you want them to do more of and they'll do more of it. Learning a new skill is punishing enough. We don't need to add to it. It's hard to fix multiple things when you've never done something before. Give feedback one step at a time. Give one piece of feedback at a time. Practice until they get it right. Then move to the next step. Whenever there is a major dip from normal performance, retrain the team. They stop doing an important step in the process, often because they didn't know it was important. Once you figure out the step, reward people for following it going forward. How to calculate returns from lead getting employees. Excluding the cost of running paid ads, the cost of advertising, outreach, content, etc. with employees is almost entirely based on the amount of money you pay them to do it. We simplify this by just comparing how much money we spend on payroll to how much money the engaged leads they get bring in. Total payroll/total engaged leads equals cost per engaged lead. X $100,000/1,000 leads equals $100 per engaged lead. If one out of 10 of the engaged leads become customers, then our CAC is $1,000. $100 per engaged lead X 10 engaged leads per customer equals $1,000 CAC. If each customer has an LTGP of $4,000, then you have an LTGP to CAC of 4:1 ratio. $4,000 LTGP/ $1,000 CAC equals to 4:1 ratio. For example, at the time of this writing, I get about 30,000 engaged leads per month at aqu.com. I run no paid ads and do no outreach. But the team responsible for creating the content that generates that interest is about $100,000 per month. This means it costs me roughly $3.33 per engaged lead, $100,000/30,000 leads in payroll to generate them. We make much more than $3.33 per lead, so we're profitable. You can apply the same math to whatever advertising method you use. How to know which employees to focus on to maximize returns. Like we learned in run paid ads part two, if your cost to get a customer is within 3x industry average, then you're doing good enough. From there, you focus on bumping up your LTGP. If your CAC is more than 3x industry average, then you have a sales problem or an advertising problem. We diagnose this with a single question. Do my engaged leads have the problem I solve and the money to spend? If no, then they're not qualified. That's an advertising problem. If yes, then they're qualified and they're buying, but you don't have enough of them. Advertising problem. They're qualified, but not buying. Sales problem. Don't fire your sales guy if you got advertising problems. And equally, don't fire your advertising employees if you got a sales problem. That little question can help you identify which employees to focus on. But fundamentally, you just need to figure out all your costs of getting a customer put together. And as long as they're at least onethird of the profit you make over the lifetime, you're in good shape. Conclusion. The goal of this chapter was to shift your perspective. It's your job to advertise and sell the vision of your company. You advertise it publicly and privately to employees and customers alike. That's the job. And once you get good at it, you become unstoppable. I say this because I believe anyone can be taught to do ground level jobs for any business, advertising or otherwise. So, who you pick is not as important as how you train the ones you do. Like I've said throughout the book and we'll say again here, it doesn't take a genius to advertise. I'd even say hurts. We've got plenty more iron wills than brainiacs anyways. Remember, this isn't about brains. It's about guts. And although some people might be born geniuses, nobody is born with an iron will. After all, we all come out crybab. All this to say, having guts is a skill. And that means anyone can have the guts if they learn how. So, if you have an iron will, and as an entrepreneur, you probably do, it won't take long for you to figure out that you got it from your life experiences, you can pass those experiences on as lessons to anyone who cares enough to listen. Then, they can stand on your shoulders and have a better chance at succeeding in life. And you can't really know anything anyway until you train them well and give them a fighting chance to succeed out in the field. Plus, for low-level jobs, you'll never have a shortage of labor. Get picky when you have to make massive investments in hyperspecific multiple six-f figureure seuite employees, aka fancy employees. I find at this current stage, it's actually a better use of time to hire and train anyone willing. Then, when you find winners, and with this method, you will treat them well. Don't burn them out and give them what they deserve. In a land of overflowing leads, you'll need allies. Employees are among the most powerful of these allies. We talked about how they make you wealthy, how they work, how getting them works, how to get them, how to get them getting you leads, how to keep them getting you leads, and how to know you're doing a good job. And once you've built a system for getting people who get you leads, doing the core for on your behalf, you just need to do more. Author note, a word on fancy employees. I explicitly left out recruiting director level and up employees because you can easily qualify for acquisition.com without them. And once you do become a portfolio company, we do it for you. The next lead getter, the next stop on our advertising journey leads us to agencies. Yes, you can pay people to shortcut your path. I have paid zillions of dollars to agencies and I believe I've finally cracked the code on how to create a win for all parties for us. so we're not dependent on them forever for them so they can make more profit and provide more value to their customers. They've been key to many breakthroughs I've had. So you won't want to skip this next one. Number three, agencies. Everything is for sale. Summer 2016. I wasn't a tech guy. I was a fitness guy who had learned a few marketing and sales tricks building my gyms. But now I had five and was launching my sixth. It was time to level up. Facebook had just released some new features, retargeting, interest groups, pixels, etc., and I didn't understand any of it. I bought a few courses, but ended up more confused than when I started. I asked a few friends if they knew anyone who could help. I got two referrals. Both were agencies. I was scared. I had never used one before. I had only ever heard horror stories about advertising agencies, mostly that they cost a ton and never work. But then I realized that even if they did work, I'd need them forever. They'd have my business by the balls. It turns out my expectations weren't far off. They offered to run my ads all right for an arm and a leg. Money I couldn't justify spending with my low margins. But then again, my advertising costs were killing me. And at this rate, in a few months, I wouldn't be able to keep my doors open. Stressful. I refused the first agency because I couldn't afford it at the time. The second call started going the same way. I began to panic. How am I going to fix this? In what felt like a lastditch effort to stay in business, I asked the second agency owner for what I really wanted. Can you just show me in a few hours how you would run ads on my account? No. He fired back. My time's not for sale. Worried but still hopeful. What sort of arrangement could we come to? He thought for a moment. Then his eyebrow shot up and a smirk appeared. Fine. $750 an hour. Gulp. His intimidation tactic worked, but at least I knew his time was for sale, so I wanted to find out more. And for $750 per hour, you will sit down with me and show me how you would run my ads. Yes. And I'd be the one doing everything. Like, you'll walk me through what to do and look over my shoulder as I do it. Then you'll explain why you do it that way. Yeah. And you're confident you can make my ads more profitable. and show me the more advanced stuff, too, right? Yeah. I mean, if you want to pay me $750 an hour, we can do whatever you want. It's your money, he said, half laughing. It sounded more like it's your funeral. I paused. All right, I'll do it. We'll meet 1 hour a week. You give me homework and I'll study between calls. Fair enough. Worked for me, but you got to pay for the first 4 hours up front. So, that's what I did. I placed a $3,000 bet on this guy's word that he knew what he was doing. Yikes. But every week thereafter, I showed up and like a good student, I came with notes and questions ready. I also recorded and re-watched every call because I didn't want to miss anything. The first two calls, he took the wheel and I watched calls three and four, he put me in the driver's seat. By calls five and six, it clicked. I got how he made decisions and what data he tracked. At seven and eight, I realized I didn't need his help anymore. I had learned how to run paid ads, at least on Facebook, like a pro. And if I had to make a guess, it was because I learned it from a pro. In this chapter, we explore a not so obvious but much better way to use agencies to get more leads. Let's get cranking. How agencies want you to think they work. Advertising agencies are lead getting service businesses. You pay them to run paid ads, do outreach, or package and distribute content. For example, let's say you want to post free video content, but you know nothing about making video content or how to distribute it. You need to learn how to pick video topics, record videos, edit videos, make thumbnail images, and write headlines. Or you need to hire the people who do. Enter the agency. They say they've hired and trained people to do that stuff already. So they promised faster, better, and more costefficient results than you could get on your own. And as soon as I had enough money, it felt compelling enough. After my first experience with an agency that I mentioned earlier and went quite well, I decided to use more. But my experience with the next 10 plus agencies was different because I used them the right way. Each one something like this. Step one, they got me excited about all the new leads they would bring. Step two, I go through an onboarding process that felt valuable and sometimes was. Step three, they assigned their best senior rep to my account. Step four, I saw some results. Step five, they move my senior rep to the newest customer. Step six, a junior rep starts managing my account. My results suffered. Step seven, I complained. Step eight, the senior rep wou