# Part 13 of 20

ow. Typically, they have figured out how to get enough customers from one platform to get them to $1 million to $3 million per year. It's still not completely predictable, and they have their ups and downs, but they have the gist of what they need to do and have seen some success. So, it's at this point they hit a wall because they think they can't make more money. They assume they've tapped their market. I kid you not. I had a conversation with a different entrepreneur making about $3 million per year in the weight loss space. He worried increasing his ad spend past $40,000 per month would saturate his ad platform. For context, the platform has over 1 billion active daily users. and he was selling weight loss in America, a $60 billion industry. Silly. There are more leads out there than you can possibly imagine. I've used a framework to unlock those leads over and over again. And now you can use it, too. How to get even more leads, more better new. First, you reach out to people who know you. Then, you start making free content. Then, you start reaching out to people who don't know you. Then, you start running paid ads. This is how you do the core four to get engaged leads. And there's really nothing else a single person can do on their own to get them. But what if you're doing the core four and still not getting as many engaged leads as you want? Well, worry not. There are two ways to boost any of the core four to get even more engaged leads on your own. I use these every time I want to increase the engaged lead flow in a portfolio company. They're easy to remember. More, better, new. simply stated, one, you can do more of what you're currently doing. Two, you can do what you're currently doing better. Three, you can do it somewhere new. And just like the story in the beginning with the agency owner, that's exactly what I was asking him. Could you advertise more? Could you advertise better? Could you advertise somewhere new? So, let's start with the one I actually do first. More? More? You've done some advertising by now, and you know the advertising that you do works to some degree. So, the next obvious thing you can do to get more engaged leads is more. A lot more. Crank up the volume to your max capacity. Even with no improvements at all, if you double your inputs, you'll get more engaged leads. Make twice the reachouts, post twice the content, run twice the ads, double the ad spend, etc. You won't regret it. Unless, of course, you hate money. So, while we'll always focus on testing to make ourselves better, which we'll get to in a moment, the biggest increases often come from advertising more, here's how I do more. The rule of 100. The rule of 100 is simple. You advertise your stuff by doing 100 primary actions every day for 100 days in a row. That's it. I don't make many promises, but this is one. If you do 100 primary actions per day and you do it for 100 days straight, you will get more engaged leads. Commit to the rule of 100 and you will never go hungry again. Here's what it looks like applied to each of the core four. Warm reachouts, 100 reachouts per day. Example, primary actions, email, text, direct message, calls, etc. Post content, 100 minutes per day making content. Release at least one per day on a platform. As you get better, post even more. Example, primary actions, short and long videos or articles, podcasts, infographics, etc. Cold reachouts, 100 reach outs per day. Example, primary actions, email, text, direct message, cold call, flyers, etc. As with all cold advertising, expect lower response rates, so use automation. Paid ads, 100 minutes per day making paid ads. Example, primary actions, direct response media ads, direct mail, seminar, podcast spots, etc. 100 days straight of running those paid ads. Use the daily budget we calculated together in the paid ads chapter. Aim for client financed acquisition. Pro tip, more ads means better ads means more leads. Facebook reviewed the accounts of all advertisers on a platform. They found something curious. The top 0.1% of advertisers test 11 times more creative than everyone else. Often times, it's not that you can't scale an ad profitably. You just can't scale a mediocre ad profitably. And the only way to find the exceptional ads is to make more of them. Success leaves clues. Do what the 0.1% do and get what the 0.1% get. Here's some inspiration from someone in # Mosanation following the rule of 100. Better. Getting better gets you more leads for the same effort. We want that. And you can only get better by doing one thing, testing. So you do more and more until it breaks. Then you make it better. In other words, if you do more for long enough, your CAC will eventually get too high to sustain. So, you make a tweak and see if it improves. If it does, keep doing it. If it doesn't, toss it out. Thousands of these tiny tests separate the winners from the beginners. Every action a lead takes before they become a customer is a potential drop off point. So, I do the most testing at whatever step the most leads drop off. I call these constraints. Constraints are the points where the smallest improvements create the biggest boost in results. That's why they're so important. We get the biggest bang for our buck. For example, if you have three steps in your process, 30% optin, give you their contact information. 5% apply. This is the constraint because it has the biggest drop off. 50% schedule. But let's ignore the constraint for a moment. Imagine we improve each step by 5% by itself. 30 + 5% 35% opt-in equals 16% increase in leads 1.16x 5 + 5% 10% apply equals 100% increase in leads 2x 50 + 5% 55 5% schedule equals 10% increase in leads 1.1x we get wildly different results improving the constraint also comes out the clear winner winner. So, focus on the constraint. And again, if you're not sure which step is the biggest constraint, find the step where the most leads drop off. You'll get the biggest reward for the smallest improvement. Here's how I get better. I test one thing per week per platform, and I do it for four big reasons. One, if you test multiple things at a time on one platform, you never really learn what worked. Two, steps affect each other. A single change can affect results at other steps. For example, if you change step one and more people opt in, but fewer people apply, no bueno. But you wouldn't know that if you change both steps. If you make one change, you can see what happened. If you make a bunch of changes, good luck trying to figure out what worked or didn't. Three, it forces you to prioritize what will get you the most engaged leads. You can do an infinite amount of tests, but time is limited, so you must choose your tests wisely. For example, if you only do one big test per week per platform, don't waste it on a color change from red to bright red. For maybe the most important, you run the test for long enough to see if you actually get an improvement. Too short and you won't get enough data. Too long and you waste time you could have spent improving the next constraint. With the size of my team and the amount of money I spend on advertising, one week is typically long enough for me. In every company I own, I set up a testing schedule. Every Monday, we run one split test per platform. We give it a week and the next Monday, we do three things. One, look at the results and pick the winners for each platform test. Two, then important, we write down the results of the test in a log of all tests. So the next time we do something, we start a zillion improvements later, not a square one. Three, come up with our next test to beat our current best version. If we can't beat the version we're currently running in four tries or 1 month, we move on to the next constraint. You continue to allocate effort to make things better. But at a certain point, the effort you put into making it better brings lower and lower returns. At some point, it makes more sense to invest your effort into something that will bring higher returns. Only at this point do we try something new. Pro tip: front back most times. In general, the lowest percentage steps usually happen at the front and the higher percentage steps happen at the back. As in 1% of people may click an ad, then 30% will give you their contact information. This is why most times you'll end up focusing on the front more than the back. And that's fine. Those steps are usually the constraint. They have largest returns for the smallest improvements. The call out, the value elements, the offer, the CTA, the landing page, headline, sub headline, image, etc. Down the pathway you go in order of what the lead will see and then do. Pro tip: Better, more, new. When talking to businesses less than $1 million per year in profit, I usually advise them to do more first. They haven't done enough volume for percentage changes to make a big difference. But once you cross $1 million in annual profit, making things better could be the lowest cost, highest return thing you do. So once a business is big enough, I flip the order from more, better, new to better, more new. So after you've improved your marketing efforts through more and better, the only thing you have left is new places in new ways. In simple terms, new. And if you think your business can't possibly get any bigger, let me show you why it can. Then I'll show you how it can. Most business owners look only at the platform and tiny community they market in. And usually there are only three or four big companies marketing in their niche. So they assume those companies must split the entire market between them. This is exactly what the entrepreneur in my intro story did. Think for a moment about how ridiculous this is. I call this problem the size of the pi fallacy. Here's a drawing to illustrate how the market is in fact much bigger than most assume. The size of the pi fallacy. A small business uses one of the core four on one platform in one specific way with a very targeted audience. And in that same space advertising the same way, there may only be a handful of other competitors. They mistakenly assume the tiny slice of the universe they advertise to is the entire available market. This is why most businesses stay small. When they plateau, they think there's no more leads to get. They believe they got as big as they possibly can. Because for many, saying, "I'm as big as I can get," is much easier than saying, "I'm not as good at advertising as I thought." This false argument keeps entrepreneurs everywhere poorer than they should be. When to do new, when the returns you get from doing more better are lower than what you could get from a new placement or new way of advertising. There are many other slices of attention and potential leads sitting just inside the tiny universe of post content. They could add new placements since many platforms have multiple places and forms of content. For example, on Instagram you can make stories, messenger ads and posts. On YouTube you can make shorts, longs, community posts, etc. Or they could add new platform. They go from Instagram Messenger to Facebook Messenger. They go from YouTube shorts videos to Instagram short videos, reals, etc. And once they've exhausted those, they could add an entirely new core for activity. And if you're curious, the order I pick my next new comes down to one thing. What will get me the most leads for the amount of work? That is the rule. And nine times out of 10, it goes like this. New placements, new platforms, new core. Bottom line, no matter how you advertise, you could do it in new ways, different styles of content or in new places. Think other platforms. Then finally, do a new core four activity altogether. And you guessed it, each of them gets us what we want, more leads. Now, this is much harder in practice, which is why I exhaust more better first. But at a certain point, you have to expand to new placements, platforms, and core four activities to let more people know about your stuff. Action step, exhaust more better first. What you can't do anymore, any better. Meaning the returns are lower than putting that same effort into a new platform. Try new. Use this rough order. New placement, new platform, new core for activity. Get it going. Measure how you do and scale up from there using more better. Then rinse and repeat. More better news summary. First, you do way more of the advertising that works until it breaks. Then the next drop off point becomes obvious. Then you keep that level of advertising up while you go back. Fix the constraint and make it better. So really better and more work with each other more than they work separately. The first question I usually ask myself before we invest in a company that needs to get more customers is what's stopping them for doing 10 times what they're currently doing. Sometimes nothing. So we just do more. Other times we just need to make something better first. So answer that question and you'll know what to do next. Only once you've exhausted more better do the real returns come from doing new. First go with new ad placements on a platform you know. Second, go with placements you know on a new platform. Then once you get the hang of that new platform, use new placements on it. Once you exhaust that, you can add a new core four activity on top of what you currently do. That gives you my simple real world way. I put the core four on steroids to get even more leads. Conclusion: advertising is the process of making known. It's what we do to let strangers know about the stuff we sell. Now, we solved the stuff problem with your lead magnet or offer. But to get them to turn into engaged leads, you have to tell them about it. So, we spent this section going over the only four ways a single person can advertise. Let other people know about their stuff. And to do it, you trade either time, money, or both. And when you do it, you can advertise to people who know you warm, or you can advertise to strangers cold. You can advertise publicly content/ ads or privately outreach. As far as what to do when whenever I build a business, I think about it this way. After I do warm outreach to get my pool of customers going, if I have more time and money, I move to posting content. If I have more money than time, I go with cold outreach or running ads. But remember, you only need to do one to get engaged leads. So, just pick one, then max it out. Do more, do better, do new, and all the advertising methods compound together. The money, systems, and experience you earn from the prior method will help you master the next. A business that posts free content and runs paid ads will get more out of their ads and their content than a business that does only one or the other. A business that does cold outreach and makes content will get more from their cold outreach and work their warm leads better than one that does only one. Every combination of the core four advertising activities boost each other in some way. And as a personal note, I've done them all. I built my first business off posting content and warm outreach. I built my gyms off free content and paid ads. I built gym launch off paid ads and cold outreach. I built Prestige Labs off affiliates, which we cover in section 4. I built Allen off paid ads and affiliates. Also, section four, I built acquisition.com off posting content. There are many ways to get engaged leads. If you master one, you'll be able to feed yourself for the rest of your life. They all work if you do. Next up, if you follow the steps in this book, you'll run out of hours in the day. You won't be able to do anymore, any better, let alone add anything new. So, you'll need help on your journey to the land of endless leads. You'll need allies. Those allies come in four different flavors. And since there are more of them than there are of you, they're the key to getting there. So, let's go get them. Section four, get lead getters. Get people who get you more leads. Give me a lever long enough and a fulcrum on which to place it, and I shall move the world. Archimedes. Building a $100 million lead machine is all about leverage. An old lady can lift a semitr with a long enough lever. The strongest man in the world without one can't. The length of the lever determines how much someone can lift. This is leverage. We can use the principle of leverage in advertising. Let me explain. Someone with internet can send a message to millions of people at once. Someone writing postcards by hand can't. The internet allows us to reach more people for the same time spent. So, it's higher leverage. That means leverage boils down to how much we get for the time we spend getting it. So, we want to use higher leverage activities to get what we want. More stuff we want, less time getting it. Good. And we want leads. Lots of leads. Pro tip. Don't mistake leverage for speed. One person can only move so fast. A person 1,000x ahead of you isn't moving 1,000x faster. They can't. They're doing different stuff. So, the future that feels so far away with leverage is closer than you think. Lead getters give you leverage. People can find out about the stuff we sell from two sources. We can let them know using the core for or other people can let them know using the core for. I call these other people lead getters. When other people do it for us, we save time. That means we get more engaged leads for less work. Leverage baby. Imagine four scenarios. Scenario number one, you are the lead getter. You do the core for all day every day by yourself. You get enough leads to pay the bills. Work high leads, low leverage, low. Scenario number two, you get a lead getter. You get a lead getter to do the core four on your behalf. Now, the lead getter brings enough leads to pay the bills without you advertising. You work less than scenario number one and get the same number of leads. Work low, leads low, leverage high. Scenario number three, you get lots of leadgetters. You spend all your time getting other lead getters. Your leads go up every time you get another one. You work all day every day, but you get way more leads than you did when it was just you. You work more than scenario number two, but get way more leads. Work high, leads high, leverage higher. Scenario number four, you get a lead getter who gets lead getters. You recruit somebody who recruits other people to advertise on your behalf. They get more lead getters every month. You only had to work to get the first lead getter once. But his leads continue climbing without you working. You works less than scenario number three and you get more leads each and every month. Work low, leads high, leverage highest. Now you've got the makings of a $100 million leads machine. Outline of the lead getters section. The lead getters aren't part of the core four because they're not things you do. You do not do affiliates or do customer referrals or do agencies or do employees, but you have to do the core four to get them. They come from warm outreach, cold reachouts, posting content, and running paid ads. And once you get them, they do it for you. So the core four stacks, one time to get them, and a second time for when lead getters get engaged leads on your behalf. But it doesn't have to end there. In fact, it shouldn't. The process repeats. Lead getters can go get lead getters. So, we do something once, then lead getters can do it forever. But wait, I thought this book was about getting leads. So, am I trying to get leads or don't want lead getters? Answer: Yes. Lead getters start out as leads, then get interested in the stuff you sell and become engaged leads like anyone else. The difference is they get other people interested in the stuff you sell, too. And ideally, every lead becomes a lead getter. The following chapters 