# Part 15 of 20

hate to benefit from your product, you've made it better. If the customer gives up fewer things they love to benefit from your product, you've made it better. And there's no such thing as a perfect product. You can always make it better. And the easier you make it for them to benefit, the more goodwill you get and the more likely they'll refer. Here's my process to keep making my stuff better. Step number one, use customer service data, surveys, and reviews to find the most common problem with your product. Step number two, figure out your fix. To get a head start, get feedback from the customers who made your product work for them despite the problem it has. Step number three, use that feedback to improve your product. Step number four, give the new version to a small group of your struggling customers. Step number five, get your next round of feedback. If you solve the original problem, then roll it out to all customers. If it didn't, go back to step number two. Step number six, move to the next most common problem and repeat the process. Do this until the end of time. Action step, keep making your stuff better. Survey, make changes, implement, measure, repeat. I run this process every month. Set this as a recurring monthly process. A product that takes less effort and fewer sacrifices means more goodwill. And more goodwill means more referrals. Six call to action. Tell them what to buy next. If you have an amazing product, they'll want more. You have to satisfy their desire to buy. If you don't, they'll still buy, but from someone else. Don't let that happen. Sell them again. You can either sell them a new thing or more of the thing they just bought. In either case, you'll get even more goodwill and extend the lifetime of the customer. And besides, the more stuff they can buy, the more stuff they can refer their friends to. For example, in a weight loss company we know, lots of customers referred friends to their first tier product, but some didn't. A lot of those customers who didn't refer to the first product when they bought their more expensive thing referred their friends to that. So, you got to keep selling. In my experience, people obsess over their front-end offers, and that makes sense, but then they neglect the back end and customers fall off. And customers that fall off your product are unlikely to refer. So, keep selling them so they don't. Action step, treat every customer like it's the first time you sold them. Make sure your next offer is more compelling than your first. Remind them to buy more after each big win. More things to buy means more opportunities to add even more value. More value means more goodwill. And more goodwill means, you guessed it, more referrals. One question to rule them all. Let's consolidate these six steps into one thought experiment. I encourage you to try it out with your team. Here it is. You've lost all your customers but one. The gods of advertising ban you from doing the core four and decree. All customers must come from this one customer. Violate our terms and we will destroy your business and every other business you start for eternity. Tough break. But the question remains, how would you treat this customer? What would you do to make their experience so valuable they would send all their friends? What kind of results would they need to get? What would their onboarding be? What type of customer would you pick? Think about it right out. Your business depends on it. Then do its smiley face. Start acting like the advertising gods will revoke your core four privileges at any moment. Soon you'll see you have no choice but to start adding more value to get more customer referrals. Now that we covered that, do you want to know how you can get even more referrals? Ask for them. Referrals, ask for them. Do you know why businesses have so few referrals compared to what they could have? They never ask for them. Your customers, like any audience, can only know what to do if you tell them. Now, I've tried a lot of referral strategies. Most failed, and I struggled until I had this epiphany. Asking for referrals only works when you treat it like an offer. The referrals come when you show the value the customer gets when they refer their friends. Let me give you two quick case studies to show the power of asking for referrals. Case study number one, Dropbox gave free storage to customers and free storage to the friends they referred. The referral program went viral and they 39x their business in 15 months. Case study number two. PayPal gave $10 in credit to customers and $10 to the friends they referred. Within 2 years, the program helped them reach a million users and 6 years later they hit 100 million users. They still use it today. So, how do we harness the same viral growth in our own small businesses? We do what they did. We asked for it. Seven ways to ask for referrals. There are three components to a referral program. How you give the incentive, what you incentivize with, and how you ask. Rather than give you a 100 variations that may or may not work, here are the seven combos that worked best for me. One, one-sided referral benefit. I'd rather pay customers than a platform any day of the week. Pay your average cost to acquire a customer to the refer or the friend. Make them aware of the incentive. X. Imagine it costs $200 to get a new customer. Ask the current customer to make an actual three-way introduction to a friend by call, SMS, or email, not just a name and number. Also, ask them to do it right when they buy. Don't wait. Then, write them a check for $200 when their friend signs up or give their friend $200 off. X. This works great for spouses because they both basically get the benefit. always ask for the spouse and give a household discount. Two two-sided referral benefits. This is what Dropbox and PayPal used. We pay our CAC to both parties. Half goes to the referer in credit or cash and half goes to the friend in credit. This way they both benefit. X we sell $500 programs. Our cost to get a customer is $200. For every friend someone refers, we give them $100 cash and give their friend $100 off signing up. Good for up to three friends. This worked really well for my local businesses. Pro tip, run your paid ads for free. In our service businesses, we routinely get an additional 25 to 30% of signups as referrals. if we asked for a referral right when they signed up. So if we signed up 100 clients for a promotion, we would usually get another 25 to 30 clients from referrals. And since we always operate above 3:1 LTGP to CAC, the cash from referrals often cover the cost of the ads and some bingo bango. Three, ask for a referral right when they buy. on the sales contract or checkout page. Ask for some names and phone numbers of people they'd like to do this with. Show them how they will get better results when they do it with a friend. X. I had a new salesman come into one of my portfolio companies and shatter all the sales records for an upcoming event. We didn't know what was going on, so I hopped on the phone with him. How are you selling more tickets than everyone else? He shrugged and said, I'm doing the same thing as everyone else. I just make sure I ask them who else they want to have come with them. Then ask them to introduce me. Half his sales were referrals. So simple and yet no one does it. Scripting example. People who do our program with someone else tend to get 3x the results. Who else could you do this program with? Pro tip. Not if, but who. Once someone is a customer, be more direct with your ask. Don't ask if they know someone, ask who they know. Four, add referrals as a negotiation chip. On top of that, you can ask for referrals as a way to negotiate a lower price. In other words, if someone wants to pay $400 and your price is $500, you can give them the discount in exchange for an introduction to three friends. You can ethically charge a different price for the same thing because you changed the terms of the sale. X I can't do anything less than $500 down, but if you make a three-way text introduction to a few of your friends right now, I'd be happy to cut that initiation fee. And to address the question you didn't ask. If a full price customer finds out you gave someone else a discount, which I've had happen, here's all you say. Yeah, Stacy got $100 off because she referred three friends. I'm happy to give you $100 if you refer me three friends. Who do you have in mind? They either back off or they give you three friends. Win-win. Five, referral events, where people get points, credits, dollars, or even just bragging rights for bringing friends within an explicit time period. Referral events typically last from 1 to 4 weeks. Whenever you run one of these events, sell everyone on the benefits of working with others. Use some stats, internal or external, to show high success rates and the selfish benefit to bringing friends. I use names like bring a friend promotion, spouse challenge promotion, accountability buddy promotion, coach challenge promotion where you create teams with your employees and customers. This works well in coaching style businesses. Six, ongoing referral programs. Instead of running a limited duration referral promotion, you talk about the benefits of doing things with others all the time. Think in your free content, outreach, paid ads, etc. After a buddy did this, he saw a 33% boost in total signups. For context, he had 1 million customers buy tickets to his virtual event and 250,000 of them were referred. This stuff works. Seven, unlockable referral bonuses. Create bonuses for people who one, refer, and two, leave a testimonial. A few examples. Unlock VIP bonuses, courses, tokens, status, training, merchandise, service levels, premium support, additional hours of service, etc. Unlockable referral bonuses work well if you don't like paying out cash. The bonuses can also be for both parties if you like since they cost you less than cash. Visit the lead magnet section for some extra inspiration. As always, the more insane you make the offer, the more people will refer. If you want them to refer, make it so good they'd be stupid not to. You're only limited by your creativity. Here's what it looks like to combine a few of the strategies above into a killer referral promotion. Give everyone a gift card for 1/3 the cost of their program. Tell them they can give it to a friend of theirs if they sign up with them. Give a gift card an expiration date within 7 to 14 days from the date you give it to them. It will force them to use it. This gives the refer status when they give it to their friend. Rather than saying, "Hey, join my program for $2,000 off." They say, "I got this gift card for $2,000. Do you want it? I don't want to waste it." It's seen as a much bigger deal for them and you. You can still use the three-way introduction with this tactic. Then text a picture of the gift card. Bonus points if you write the friend's name on it before texting the picture. It makes it feel personalized and gives you a legitimate reason for asking for their friend's name. Wink. PS. You can also sell the gift cards at 90% off as purchasable gifts only for friends of customers. The referer looks like they spent a lot of money and you get paid to get new customers. I can hardly think of a better way to make money. Again, the only limit is your creativity. Pro tip. Match the thing you give with the thing you sell. If you don't want to give away money, try to match the referral incentive to the core product you sell. For example, if you have a t-shirt manufacturing company, giving away free t-shirts makes a lot of sense because your incentive will attract people who actually want t-shirts and they're more likely to become paying customers. Hint, that's why the gift card works so well. On the other hand, if you give away an amazing limited edition t-shirt for your IT services business, it may or may not attract people who want IT services. So, try to match the thing you give with the thing you sell. Conclusion: referrals aren't an advertising method you can do. It's not one trick or hack, although we learned some of those. It's a way of doing business, and it starts with you. After all, referring is always a risk for the customer. They risk their goodwill with their friend in the hopes of getting more by showing them something cool, your stuff. So, customers only refer when they think it's very likely their friend will have a good experience. In other words, when the benefits to them personally outweigh the risk of hurting the relationship with their friend. So, we add benefits for them and their friends with incentives. And we lower the risk by building goodwill, showing we deliver on our promises. And we do that by using the six ways to give your customers more value. Now, don't get me wrong, building goodwill does a fantastic job of getting referrals on its own. But if we're smart, which we are, we capitalize on that goodwill. So, we can get even more referrals by using the seven ways to ask for them. Few. So, give more than you get and you'll never go hungry again. This is how we treat our customers. Do this and you can monetize Goodwill forever. To keep this in perspective, I always remind myself I am compensated tomorrow for the value I provide today. Action items. Figure out your referral percentages and churn percentages to set a baseline. Implement the six giving value steps to build goodwill. Then capitalize on that goodwill using one or more of the seven ways to ask for referrals. Next up, so now we have to figure out how to scale a team. It looks like we'll have to call out potential teammates, show them the value of joining the team, then ask them to join. Wait, that sounds familiar. But seriously, if you really want a $100 million leads machine, buckle up. The most valuable chapter in the book is coming up next. Employees. For real, this isn't a boring chapter, and you're going to need them if you want to make the big money. Number two, employees. If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together. African proverb. June 2021. The new sales director piped up. I know we came in under our goal again, but I don't think we need to change anything. We'll hit it this quarter. Eyes darted around the room and looked in every direction but mine. The silence was long enough for the executive assistant to mark the topic covered and move on. No wonder we missed our cold outreach goal for the second quarter in a row. Nobody challenged the failure. What? So now we think the third time's a charm. Wait, I said. Now everyone looked in my direction. I'd like to know why we didn't hit this two quarters in a row. I know we can sell. So if we want to make more sales with cold outreach, then we do more cold outreach. What's the issue? We lose a rep every four weeks, the sales director said. Uh-huh. Okay. Why is our churn so high? I was wondering the same thing, but HR says we're actually below industry average churn for this position. he continued. But by the time we hire an onboard one, another churns out. I saw the HR director nodding in agreement, getting warmer. Okay, so the issue is hiring. I said, so what's the hiring situation look like? We hire one out of every four candidates HR pushes to us. So if they turn out as fast as we hire them, and you only hire one out of every four, that means you only get like one candidate a week. Yeah, about that. Almost there. Gotcha. Now, I looked at the HR director. What's the screening situation look like? We get one qualified candidate per 10 screening interviews. Give or take? She said, "So, if it takes 40 interviews to get a single low skill frontline worker, I guess so. Bingo. All right. We need to change things up." I said, "We're bottlenecked at the one-on-one screening. Start interviewing in groups and look for crazies there. Push everyone else with a good work ethic and basic social skills over to sales. We can teach the rest. Agree? The team nodded. Within 6 weeks, hiring outpace churn. Our cold outreach sales increased in lock step. By the end of the quarter, cold outreach sales had doubled and made up more than half our total sales. The issue wasn't our cold outreach method. Skills are offered all. We just didn't have enough people doing cold outreach. If you use the methods in this book, you will see more engaged leads flow into your business. More engaged leads means more customers. But as you grow, so does your workload. In due time, it will take more work than any single person can handle. And you can solve the problem of too much work for one person by having more people work. In short, to advertise more, you'll need more workers. In this chapter, we'll show you how employees work, why they make you wealthy, how to get them, and the method I use to turn them into lead getters. How employees work. Lead getting employees are people working in your business that you train to get you leads. They get you lead the exact same way you got your own leads in the beginning. They can run ads, they can make and post content, and they can do outreach. They can do any advertising you train them to do. So more lead getting employees means more engaged leads for your business. It also means less work you have to do to get the leads. More leads and less work. Sign me up. But wait, not so fast. Don't get me wrong, employees take work. They just take less time and work than doing everything on your own. In my experience, if you trade 40 hours of doing for 4 hours of managing, you work 36 hours less. Brilliant. And the best part is you can make that trade over and over. You can swap 200 hours of work per week for 20 hours of management. Then you trade the 20 hours of managing for a manager who costs you 4 hours per week to lead. What remains is 4 hours of work for 200 hours of lead getting. Boom. Bottom line. Employees make a fully functioning enterprise that grows without you. Why employees make you wealthy? For your business to run without you, other people need to run it. Scenario number one. Imagine you have a business that makes $5 million per year in revenue and $2 million in profit. And to make that profit, you have to work around the clock. In this situation, you basically have a highpaying job. But let's say you're okay with working all hours and knowing your business would burn down if you took a vacation. Vacations are for losers anyways. Kitting cough sort of. We still have another important thing to look at. Sure, you make a bit of money, but your business isn't worth much. If the business only makes money with you in it, then it's a bad investment for anyone else. That may not sound like a big deal right now, but let's consider an alternative. Scenario number two. Your business makes the same $5 million in revenue and $2 million in profit. But there's one big difference. The business runs without you. This does two very cool things. One, it turns what used to be a risky job into a valuable asset. And two, it makes you much wealthier. Here's how. First, you get your time back so you can use that time to invest in your business, buy other businesses, or take your stinking vacations. Second, you become much wealthier because your business is now worth something to someone else. You turn a liability that relied on you into an asset you can rely on. If you have an asset that makes millions of dollars without you, then that means somebody else could use it to make millions of dollars without them. In other words, your business is now a good investment. Then investors looking for assets like Acquisition.com, for instance, would buy some or all of it from you. And your $2 million in profit per year, especially if it's climbing, could easily be worth $10 million plus right now. S