# Part 5 of 20

they're interested. When I make an offer from scratch, I refer to the value equation. If you're wondering what's the value equation, it was the core concept of my first book, $100 million offers. Value, as I define it, has four elements. One, dream outcome. What the person wants to happen the way they want it to happen. State the best possible results your product can get. Big bonus points if those results come from people like the one you're talking to. Two, perceived likelihood of achievement. How likely they think it is for them to achieve their goal. include results, reviews, awards, endorsements, certifications, and other forms of third-party validation. Also, guarantees are huge. Three, time delay. How long they believe it'll take to get results after they buy. Describe how fast people start getting results, how often they get results when they start, and how long it takes to get the best results possible. Four, effort and sacrifice. the bad stuff they'll have to endure and the good stuff they'll have to give up in their struggle to get the result. Show them the good stuff they can keep doing or get to do and still get results. And show them the bad stuff that they can get rid of or avoid doing and still get results. The goal is to maximize the first two and minimize the second two. So all you have to do now is show someone you have exactly what they want. They're guaranteed to get it insanely fast without lifting a finger or giving up anything they love. No biggie, right? Obviously, that's ideal. We got to get as close to that as we can without lying or exaggerating. So, let's do just that with a real life offer. By the way, do you know anybody who is describe their struggles looking to dream outcome in time delay? I'm taking on five case studies for free because that's all I can handle. I just want to get some testimonials for my service/ product. I help them dream outcome without effort and sacrifice. It works. I even guarantee people get dream outcome or I work with them until they do. I just had a girl named Trip X work with me. Dream outcome. Even though she described the same struggle your contact has. I also had another guy who dream outcome and it was his first time. I just like more testimonials to show it works across different scenarios. Does anyone you like come to mind? Pause if on the phone. And if they say no, huh? Well, does anyone you hate come to mind? Ah, this helps break any awkwardness. Pro tip, implied perceived likelihood of achievement. You'll notice besides the guarantee, there's no slot for perceived likelihood of achievement. But how we explain the testimonials fulfills that need. After all, we're not going to say, "Hey, I can obviously help you because I've helped someone exactly like you." But we imply that by selecting a testimonial that's as close to their situation as possible. And the longer you are in business, the more perfect fit testimonials you'll have. So, the easier it'll be to show testimonials that perfectly match the person you're speaking with. Then, once you can show one perfect testimonial, the only thing better is a buttload of them. There's an important feature here. We're not asking them to buy anything. We're asking if they know anyone. And of the people who say yes, most say they are interested. This entire thing is engineered to boost their perceived likelihood of achievement. It's why we show struggles and results from people like them who have struggles like theirs. But we let them connect the dots. Since you didn't ask them to buy anything, you don't come off as pushy. Some people will show interest in your stuff. Some will refer you to those who might. So, we'll do both. In all three outcomes, you win. And you win without pushing anything on anyone. If you have even less time or space to deliver it, just use the value elements back to back. I help ideal customer get dream outcome in time period without effort and sacrifice and increase perceived likelihood of achievement. Look at the pro tip below. Note, these work well for emails, texts, direct messages, calls, and in person. Just fill in the blanks. Pro tip: 11 ways to increase perceived likelihood of achievement. Here's how you increase their perceived likelihood of achievement so more people take you up on your offer. Include one or more of the following. Showing proof we have done what they want, our own story. Showing proof of people just like them getting what they want. Think testimonials showing the sheer volume of happy reviews we've received. Think lots of five stars. A if you don't have reviews yet, even the number of people you've helped works, certifications, degrees, third party accreditations that were legit, numbers, stats, research that supports the outcome you want them to believe. Experts vouching for us. Some new/ unique characteristic they haven't failed with before, so it might work this time. Celebrities who have endorsed us, they trusted them, so should I. Guaranteeing they'll achieve it, so we put some skin in the game, too. How well you describe them or the current pain they're experiencing. The more specific, the better. Think he she really gets me. They must know how to help. If possible, demonstrate the outcome live or show a recording of it happening. Hey, example advertising agency plays a recording of a call that a gym owner has to make to a lead on the sales call. Could you handle making a call like that to a lead if we get them for you? It demonstrates the outcome of the advertising services. People don't want leads, they want customers. They just don't know a better way to ask for them. Step seven, how do I get them to say yes. Make it easy for them to say yes. Make it free. After people show interest, make your offer easy to say yes to. I like to start with the easiest offer enhancer in the world free. And don't try to look advanced if you're not. People aren't dumb. Just be honest and keep it simple. Since I'm only taking on five people, I can give you all the attention you need to get bragworthy results. And I'll give it all for free so long as you promise to one, use it. Two, give me feedback. And three, leave a killer review if you think it deserves one. Does that sound fair? This sets reasonable expectations up front and boom, now you're just helping people for free, winning. Pro tip: Stack yes to build early momentum. Early on, I felt terrified asking for money. So, if you recall from the story above, I told people I would work with them for free as long as they donated to a charity of their choice. I still got them invested in their results, but asking them for a feel-good tax write-off felt like a much safer way to do it. By the way, this was the first thing I ever sold. Looking back, I wanted easy, low pressure yes under my belt. And those early yes built my first business. And they can build your business, too. My recommendation, whenever you launch a new product or service, make the first five free. The exact number matters less than knowing why you benefit from it. Here's why. One, you get the reps in and become comfortable with making offers to people. It'll calm your nerves knowing you're just helping for free for now. Winky face. Two, you probably suck for now. People are far more forgiving when you haven't charged anything. Three, because you probably suck, you need to learn how to suck less. You suck less by doing more. It's better to have a few guinea pigs to get the kinks out. You learn a ton from the people you help for free. I promise even though it may not feel like it now, you're getting the better end of the deal. For if people get value, especially for free, they're far more likely to leave positive reviews and testimonials, give you feedback, send their friends and family. And if that's not awesome enough, free customers can make you money in three other ways. One, they convert into paying customers. Two, they send you paying customers via referrals. Three, their testimonials bring in paying customers. So, no matter what, you win. Pro tip, apply the Hinge method to referrals. If you ask for a referral, get a three-way introduction. My favorite way to do this in person is to grab the customer's phone, take a picture of the two of us, then text that picture to the referral and your own number. If I'm virtual, screenshot a video call, and do the same thing. If you can't do that, then at least get a three-way conversation going with them. initiating it. What if they say no? Often the most expensive part of what you sell isn't the price, it's the hidden costs. Hidden costs are the time, effort, and sacrifice it takes to get results from the thing you sell. In other words, the bottom part of the value equation. If you struggle to give your stuff away for free, it means either people don't want it, dream outcome. They don't believe you. Perceived likelihood of achievement or the hidden costs, time, effort, and sacrifice are too high. In short, your free stuff is too expensive. So figure out the hidden costs. Once you do, you unlock even more value that you'll eventually be able to charge for. To build your understanding of hidden costs, ask. So when someone says no, ask why. What would I have to do to make it worth it for you to continue? Their answers give you a chance to solve their problem. And if you solve that problem, they'll probably buy from you. And even if they don't buy from you, they'll give you the ammo to get the next person, too. And remember, failure is a requisite for success. It's part of the process. So, rack up failures as fast as you can. Get them out of the way to start paying down your no tax. If you get thousands of nos, you will get your yes. I promise. I always tell myself, yes, give me opportunity. No, give me feedback. Either way, I win. Off a note, Warren Buffet and Benjamin Graham. Before Warren Buffet became the greatest investor of our time, he offered to work for his hero, Ben Graham, for free. Want to know Graham's response? You're overpriced. Graham knew what was up. The most expensive thing about hiring Buffet wasn't a paycheck, but the time to train him. Graham would actually be working for Buffet. And in the same way, your early customers are working for you. They're training you for free, and you want to minimize that cost to them. Know your hidden costs. PS. Buffet still managed to get Graham to take his free offer. The rest is history. Pro tip: learning or earning. If anyone tells you not to undervalue yourself by giving your services away for free in the beginning, tell them a hush. Sure, you're a special snowflake, but the stuff you sell isn't. It isn't valuable yet. You've barely started. The objective right now is to learn not to earn. We'll get to the earning once we've learned more. But we must crawl before we run. Don't get the objectives mixed. The earning will come. I promise. Step eight. What I do once I've reached out to everyone. Start back at the top. After reaching out to all the leads on one platform, switch to the platform you have the second most leads on. After you reach out to those leads, go to the platform you have the third most leads on and so forth. Let's say you follow this to the tea because being poor sucks more than helping people for free. If between all platforms, you have 1,000 leads, that gives you 10 solid days of work. A month of work, including follow-ups. By this point, I promise five or more people will have accepted your free offer, and some will have converted into paying customers. If you did a good job, they'll send friends and they'll become paying customers, too. So, let's make our first dollar. Step nine. But I can't work for free forever. Start charging. This is important. This is your litmus test to know when you're good enough to charge. Once people start referring, start charging. When that happens, swap out free in the script above to 80% off for the next five. Then 60% off for the next five. Then 40% off for the next five. and so forth. The I increase my prices every five rule also adds urgency because prices actually go up. And if you're curious, you don't have to stop raising your price. Feel free to keep raising it by 20% every five until you find your sweet spot. It's your business. You could do what you want. Charge more as you get more experienced. A nice reward. Pro tip: Get more cash upfront and more. Yes, prepaid plus guarantee. Offering a guarantee gets more people to buy because it reverses risk. Here's a nice twist on a guarantee that'll get you more yes and more cash. You can offer a guarantee only to people who pay upfront. Reason why people who invest upfront are more committed. And as a result, we're able to guarantee their outcomes. So if you'd like our guarantee, you can prepay our service. Another version of wording I got my good friend Dr. Cashy. After the person agrees to buy, you say, "Would you rather pay less today or get all your money back?" Paying less today equals payment plan, so less money down. Get all your money back equals prepay and get a guarantee that you get the result you want. Example, pay less equals $2,000 per mo for 3 months equals $6,000. No guarantee. Or get all your money back equals $6,000 upfront with a guarantee. presented this way, the majority of the people take the upfront cash option with a guarantee. So, if you plan on offering one anyways, you may as well weaponize it to incentivize more people to pay upfront. Step 10. But what do I do from here? Keep your list warm. Give regular value to your list through email, social media, etc. to keep it warm. A warm list stays primed for your warm reachouts in the future. We cover exactly how to give that value in the next chapter. Once you've given value for a while or see who wants value, probe your list with Dean Jackson's timeless nineword email template. Are you still looking to fourword desire? No images, no freeze, no links, just a question. Nothing else. This message is money for getting leads to engage. And it's among the first things I do when I invest in a new business. Here are a few examples. Are you still looking to buy your dream home, get more sales leads, tone up your arms, open an online store, start a YouTube channel? You get the idea. Swipe and deploy. You make the ask to see who replies, aka engaged leads. And these replies should be your top priority for warm reachouts. I'll end step 10 here because I break down this give ass process in the next chapter. The main point is that a warm list is a huge asset because it's a consistent and growing source of engaged leads. If you treat them well, your audience will feed you forever. Advertising checklist summary. Now, let's look at this in 10 lines because it took 10 pages to get here. Warm reachouts daily checklist. Who yourself? What? First five free where phone email physical mail/s SMS/ etc. To whom your contacts when first four hours of your day why you want to get customers or intros how personalized message using ACA how much 100 attempts per day how many follow up two more times after first how long until you get customers benchmarks how well am I doing warm reachouts should get about one in five contacts to engage so 100 warm reachouts should get about 20 replies Of the 20 who reply, another one in fiveish will take you up on your free offer. So for people of the four who take your free offer now, you should be able to convert one into some sort of paid offer later. Hoay money. This framework allows you to predict how many customers you get per 100 warm reachouts. In the example, you would get one customer per 100 reachouts. These numbers vary based on the value of your offer and how much they trust you. But no matter what, with enough volume, you'll get a customer. And the more you do it, the better your numbers will get. It just takes effort. You'll also learn a lot about what engages your audience, what they value, and how to make offers to them. This knowledge can make you millions. You get to learn while you earn score. This process alone can take you to $100,000 plus per year with nothing else. Wild, I know. Here's the money math. This assumes 1% of your list buys a $400 offer using only warm reachouts. 500 reachouts per week equals five customers per week. $400 product, five customers per week. X $400 each equals $2,000 per week. $2,000 per week x 52 weeks equals dollar 10400. Bingo. which as of this writing is still two times the median household income in the US. Not bad. Pro tip, join communities to learn even faster. Join communities of people doing the same advertising method as you. They're great for peer support and up-to-date tricks and tips. Also, don't do anything sketchy. There are lots of people who pride themselves on pushing the legal envelope. Don't be that person. It always comes back to bite you. Do it the right way and you will feed yourself for life. You'll learn more in the first 10 days of doing 100 reachouts than you did from everything you've ever read or watched. Get that learning done as fast as you can. Remember, we want to get rich, not just get by. What's next? Warm reachouts have two limitations. The first is time. When you're starting out, getting new customers should take the majority of your time. Think 4 hours per day minimum. It should be the first thing you do when you get up and you shouldn't stop until you achieve your goal. Embrace the work. It will be part of the story you tell one day. It has been for me. The second limiter is the number of people who know you. You'll eventually run out. Don't worry though, we can get more, a lot more. Now we add the second of the core four advertising activities, posting free content. Number two, post free content. Part one, how to build an audience to get engaged leads. No one's ever complained about getting too much value. January 2020. Did you hear about Kylie Jenner? Ila asked. No, what? I replied. She's now the youngest female self-made billionaire. Wait, what? Yeah, she's 20. Forbes just put her on the cover. I was 10 years older than her and not a billionaire. Why do I suck so much? How could she make so much more than me? I thought I was pretty good at business. We took home $13 million in personal income the year before, but I was clearly missing something and I felt horrible about it. My ego protected me. Well, Chris Jenner is her mother and she must have organized all this. I wrote it off as rich parents and moved on. A few months later, Ila looked up from her computer. Dude, Huda just sold a minority stake in her company at a $600 million valuation. Huda the makeup girl. I replied, "Yeah, holy cow." Again? How have I been screwing up so bad? How is someone so young making so much more money than me? She's in beauty. She can do that. I can't. I told myself, then carried on. A few months later, a headline caught my eye. Conor McGregor's proper 12 whiskey hits a $600 million valuation within 12 months of launching. Seriously? Another person making gobs of money in what felt like seconds. A few months later, I saw another headline with an insane $3.5 billion worth. Dwayne Johnson's Terrammana sweeps the floor with Conor McGregor's Proper 12. Dwayne the Rock. Johnson was now a multi-billionaire and he never even talked about business. What am I doing wrong? A few months later at a famous friend's house. Up to this point, I stayed behind the scenes for the most part. I did not want to be famous. I wanted to be rich and I succeeded at that. But seeing these successes chipped away at my beliefs. Could building a personal brand be that powerful? Simple answer, yes. But I wanted my privacy. We sat around his kitchen table and I asked him, "You get all these weird messages from strangers. People threaten your family. Are you still happy you became famous?" He replied with something that ch