# Part 14 of 20

explain in detail how to get other people to advertise for you. And if you want to scale to $100 million plus, you have to understand them. Number one, customers. They buy your stuff, then tell other people about it to get you leads. Number two, employees. People in your business that get you leads. Number three, agencies. Businesses with services that get you leads. Number four, affiliates. Businesses who tell their audiences about your stuff to get you leads. All four lead getters let other people know about your stuff. In other words, all four are higher leverage than you doing it on your own. Once you do understand the four lead getters, you can build a lead getting machine for every company you start for the rest of your life. I'll break down how I use all four lead getters, how each is different, how to work with them, when to use them, best practices, and how to measure your progress along the way. At the end of this section, you will understand how to get other people to bring you more leads than you can possibly imagine. And since we already use the core four to get customers, let's start with something we can do right now. Get those customers to refer more customers. Number one, customer referrals, word of mouth. The best source of new work is the work on your desk. Charlie Mer. October 2019. Ila and I sat together on her parents' living room couch. The one she watched movies on as a kid. The faded edges of the coffee table begged us to kick our feet up. We balanced laptops on our thighs. Extension cords snaked around the couch to outlets down the hall. Her stepmother clanged in the kitchen. This was not a work environment, but we made do. Two years earlier, I lost everything and met her parents on the same weekend. Hey, Dad. I met this guy on the internet. He lost everything and has no money. But don't worry, I quit my job and moved in with him to help with his next big business idea. By the way, can we crash here for a while? Great first impression, Alex. A lot had changed since then. We were multi-millionaires now. We made enough to buy her childhood home in cash. Every week, Leila reviewed reports from our department heads. Oh, yeah. We had executives now, too. Hey, sales numbers look a little soft this week, she said. Really? How many did we close? 15. And sales started dipping last week, too. Is there anything different on your end? I don't know. Let me check. I log into Facebook's advertising portal. Red rejection notifications filled the screen. Welp, that'll do it, I said. What? What happened? All the ads got shut off. Well, that's a problem. When you think you can get them back up, it'll take a day or two to get a new campaign started. I squinted at the screen. Something even more alarming jumped at me. Facebook rejected the ads 2 weeks ago. I acted like nothing was wrong. So, we closed 15 this week. And how many the week before? I asked 21. Well, I've got good news and I've got bad news. Off. The bad news is the ads got shut off two weeks ago. So that explains the dip. The good news is our product is so good that we're still doing $500,000 a week from word of mouth alone. You ignored the ads for 2 weeks. She had Oh no, you didn't written all over her face. I shrugged with a sheepish grin. You still love me, right? We busted out laughing at the absurdity of all. Those two years were insane. The amount of money we were making didn't make sense. We didn't comprehend how much until years later. We were just grateful to be doing this together, flaws and all. And this accidental stretch without running paid ads made something very clear. Our customers were telling their friends. A few months later, I stood on stage and looked out over the 700 plus gym owner audience. Everyone paid $42,000 to be there. All wore black gym lord t-shirts and stick on mustaches. It was nuts. I was mid-presentation explaining how excellent service generates leads through word of mouth. All the while, I obsessed over whether the money we made during 2 weeks without running paid ads was a fluke. Feeling confident, I paused the presentation, trying to find out. All right, just to show you how important this is, who here learned about gym launch from another gym owner? Raise your hand. As soon as the words left my lips, I felt instant regret. What if no one raises their hand? What if our growth was all forced? I'm such an idiot. I looked around the room with my arm raised like a monkey. The room stood still. Oh no. Then a few gym owners raised their hands. That doesn't look great, but it could be worse. Then more. Thank god. Then more. Then a wave of hands. Holy cow. People looked to their sides and behind them. It was almost the entire room. I let the moment sink in for all of us. I'll never forget it. I knew we had good word of mouth, but not this good. That I said is the power of word of mouth. I know you weren't there when Leila and I realized we were making $500,000 plus per week from word of mouth. I know you weren't there to see $30 million in customers. Say someone referred them. The first time I realized the power of referrals, it was by accident. Seeing how much it made me, I studied what had gone right. I wanted to make sure I could recreate it on purpose. For me to transfer that ability to you, I have to transfer the beliefs that created it. And these experiences formed those beliefs. This is why I share them. People copied our offers, ads, and lead magnets. They copied our landing pages, emails, and sales scripts. They copied everything they could, but they did it with little success. They think it's about advertising, and it is. But the best advertising is a happy customer. An amazing product turns every customer into a lead getter. The world loses trust by the second. Every day, more customers do their research. They arm themselves with information to make purchasing decisions, as all they should. So to play at higher levels, we need our product to not only deliver, but delight. Customers must get so much value, it compels them to tell other people about us. The good news is once you know how, it's easier than you think. In this chapter, I explain how to get the lowest cost, highest profit, and best quality leads out there. Referrals. How referrals work. A referral happens when somebody refer an engaged lead to your business. Anyone can refer, but the best referrals come from your customers. So, this chapter focuses on getting more referrals from your customers. How referrals grow your business. Referrals are important because they grow your business in two ways. They're worth more, higher LTGP. Referrals buy more expensive stuff and buy more times. They also tend to pay in cash upfront. Lovely. They cost less, lower CAC. If one customer send you another customer because they like your stuff, that new customer cost you nothing. And free customers are cheaper than customers that cost money. So free customers equals good. But what does this stuff really mean? Check this out. Imagine you had an LTGP to CAC ratio of 4:1. That means it costs 25% of your lifetime gross profit of one customer to get another. Not bad. But now imagine if every customer brought you two more customers. You'd now have an LTGP to CAC ratio of 12:1. You'd use just over 8.3% of your lifetime gross profit to get a new customer. So, you get three customers for the price of one. Now, we're talking. Hooray. What a deal. On top of that, referrals are exponential. Let me explain. The number of engaged leads you get from the core for depends on how much you do them. The inputs to outputs have pretty linear relationships. If you do 100 reachouts, you get engaged leads. If you double it, your leads roughly double. If you spend $100 on ads, you get engaged leads. If you double it, your leads roughly double. So, no matter how well you advertise, how much you get depends on how much you do. And that's great. But with word of mouth, we could do even better. With word of mouth, one customer brings two. Two, bring four. For bring eight, and so forth. It's not linear, it's exponential. Nothing scales like word of mouth. Want to know why so few people scale by word of mouth? They lose customers faster than they get them. Look at the referral growth equation to see it in action. Referrals in minus churn customers out. If referrals are greater than churn, you grow without any other advertising. Yay. If referrals are equal to churn, you need other advertising to grow your business. Meh. If referrals are less than churn, you got to advertise to break even. Boom. Most folks, this gets nutty when you look at percentages. If the percentage of referrals every month is bigger than the percentage of customers who leave, your business compounds every month. You'd have to spend that much more money on ads, do that many more reachouts, or post that much more content just to maintain that growth. You eventually hit a wall. But with referrals, you can maintain growth no matter how big you get. This is how companies like PayPal and Dropbox exploded into multi-billion dollar businesses. I'll break down their exact strategies later in the chapter. On the other hand, small businesses barely scrape by because they have about the same customers exiting as they do entering. A hamster wheel of death. Here's why. Two reasons most businesses don't get referrals. Most businesses don't get referrals for two reasons. First, their product isn't as good as they think it is. Second, they don't ask for them. Problem number one, the product isn't good enough. Everyone loves our stuff. We just need to get the word out. Says every small business owner with a product that's not as good as they think it is. I'm going to take off my nice guy hat for a second. If your product were exceptional, people would already know about it and you'd have more business than you could handle. So, if you sell direct to consumers and they're not bringing you more customers, your product has room to improve. I like to ask myself, why are my customers too embarrassed to tell everyone they know about my product? It may be okay, but it's unremarkable, as in not worthy of remark. In fact, most of the stuff I pay for kind of sucks. My pool guy forgets stuff half the time. My landscapers make tons of noise at the worst hours. My cleaners routinely put my clothes in my wife's closet. I guess that's what I get for extra medium t-shirts. The list goes on. Business owners wonder why they don't get referrals. The answer is right in front of them. They're just not good enough. Let me show you how I think about it. Price is what you charge. Value is what they get. The difference between price and value is goodwill. This means that price not only communicates value, but it's also how we judge value. Economics dorks call it customer surplus, but I'm just going to call it goodwill. You want lots of goodwill. Lots of goodwill creates word of mouth. Word of mouth means referrals. There are two ways to build goodwill with your customers. You can lower your price or you can give more value. After all, if you lower the price of your product enough, people would line up to get it, but you probably lose money. So, lowering the price is at best a temporary solution. You can only lower the price so much for so long. And as marketing legend Rory Sutherland says, any fool can sell something for less. So to build goodwill to get referrals, the question isn't how do we lower our price, but how do we give more value? Six ways to get more referrals by giving more value. There are six ways I get referrals by giving more value. And it just so happens to map to the parts of an ad. Callouts sell better customers. Dream outcome. Set better expectations. Increase perceived likelihood of achievement. Get more people better results. Decrease time delay. Get faster results. Decrease effort and sacrifice. Keep making your stuff better. Call to action. Tell them what to buy next. Call out. Sell better customers. We want to sell better customers because they get the most value from our products. Customers that get the most value have the most goodwill. And the customers that have the most goodwill are most likely to refer. Yes, it's that simple. Let me give you a real life example. We have a portfolio company that did public relations for genera small businesses. They had a lot of sales, but they had a lot of churn. So, they plateaued. They didn't grow for years. To see what we could do, we looked at their lowest churning customers to see if they had anything in common. They did. They were all in a specific niche and looking to raise funding from investors. So the solution looked obvious, get more of them. But the founder had a big worry. These customers were only 15% of his business. If he changed his targeting, and it failed, he would lose 85% of his business. But the business wasn't growing anyway. A tough situation for any entrepreneur. But after reviewing the data many times, he agreed to change the advertising call outs to match this narrower perfect fit customer. The results, the company broke through its plateau. They grew for the first time in years and now on track to adding millions per month. Plus, their cost of advertising, a huge expense for their stagnating business, went down. They got even cheaper leads since they could be more specific with their messaging. But not only that, the cheaper leads got even more value from the product because it was meant for them. And those customers, because they had more goodwill toward the business, started referring like clockwork. Action step, increase the quality of the prospect, and you'll increase the quality of the product. Figure out what your most successful customers have in common. Use those similarities to target a new audience that has the greatest chance of getting the most value. Then sell only people who meet those new criteria. Set yourself up to build more goodwill. More goodwill means more referrals. Dream outcome. Set better expectations. The fastest, easiest, and cheapest way to make your product remarkable. Make it better than they expect. And that's easier than you might think because you set the expectations. Pro tip: dating advice. On first dates, I like to set the bar as low as possible by admitting all my flaws. After telling my now wife all my flaws, I joked, "I can only go up from here." Have you ever had a stranger tell you a new movie was awesome? Then you go see it and think, "That wasn't as good as I expected." On the flip side, have you ever had someone tell you a movie was terrible, then you ended up seeing it anyways and thought, "That wasn't as bad as I expected." Our expectations of an experience can dramatically affect the experience itself. We can increase goodwill by lowering expectations. It gives us room to overd deliver. In the beginning, I promised everything in the kitchen sink to get people to buy. Fulfilling on that turned into a nightmare. So, I began inching down my promises while maintaining quality. It gave me more room to overd deliver and I netted a major benefit, referrals. Customer expectations are fickle. That's why we set the expectations for them. And if we set those expectations, then we can exceed them. Action step. Slowly lower the promises you make when making offers. Keep lowering them until your close rates lower. At that point, stop. This maximizes how many customers you get and the goodwill you build with them. Maximize customers, and more goodwill means more referrals. Increase perceived likelihood of achievement get more people better results. The customers with the best results get the most value from your product. Figure out what they do to get the most value. And you can help your other customers do the same. Two steps ago, to sell better customers, we figure out who the best ones were. So now, to get everyone the best results, we figure out what the best ones did. Let me show you what it looked like at Gym Launch. We started by tracking customer activities, speed to running their first paid ad, speed to their first sale, their attendance on calls, etc. Then we compared the activities of our average customers to the activities of our best customers. We found out something huge. If a gym owner ran paid ads and made a sale in the first 7 days, their LTGP tripled. Once we realized this, we focused on getting everyone to launch ads and make sales in the first seven days. The results of our average customers skyrocketed. More customers, more testimonials, and more referrals followed. Here's the process I used to get more people better results. Step number one, survey customers to find the ones who got the best results. Step number two, interview them to find out what they did differently. Step number three, look at the actions they had in common. Step number four, force new customers to repeat the actions that got the best results. Step number five, measure the improvement in average customer results, speed, and outcome. Step number six, match the conditions of your guarantee to the actions that get the best results to get more people to do them. Pro tip, make the success activities the conditions of your guarantee. Do not do this if you hate money and helping people. As soon as you start getting customers results, know what they did. Then start guaranteeing new customers those results. But do it on the condition they do what the best customers did. The guarantee sells more people. The conditions get them better results. You win, they win. Action steps. Figure out what the best people did, then get everyone to do it. Make your guarantees around the actions that create the most success. More success, more goodwill, more referrals. Decrease time delay make faster wins. I define a win as any positive experience a customer has. Faster wins increase their perception of speed, increase the likelihood they'll stick, and increase how much they trust you. Triple win. To make wins feel faster, we give them wins more often. Let's imagine you have a product that takes a week to deliver. The customer can get one win at the end of that week or win every day with daily progress updates. Same amount of progress, seven times the wins. On top of that, if someone said seven things would happen and all seven do, I trust them even more. Referring a friend is now lower risk since seven promises were made and all seven were kept. Here's five ways I make wins happen faster in the real world. If I have seven small things to deliver, I deliver them at shorter intervals rather than all at once. Updates are wins. If it's a bigger project, I share progress updates as frequently as possible. You can never give someone too much good news. And regular updates, progress or not, is better than leaving your customers hanging. Customers form their lasting impression of a business within the first 48 hours after they buy. Force a good impression. Force as many wins as you can in that window. Set many expectations. Meet many expectations. Repeat. They should always know the next time they'll hear from you. I got a slick saying from a public CEO friend of mine. Bam. Book a meeting from a meeting again. Never leave a customer in no man's land. They should always know what happens next. Never expect customers to forgive you ever. So act like it. For example, you can deliver early but never late. I add 50% to my timelines so I always deliver early. That makes on time for me early for them. Action step. Break down outcomes into the smallest possible increment. Communicate as often as reasonable even if there is no progress. Update them. Set timelines with breathing room. Deliver early. More customer wins means more goodwill. And more goodwill means more referrals. Decrease effort and sacrifice. Keep making your stuff better. If the customer does less stuff they 