# Part 2 of 20

in. Got another one, she said. You won't believe this. I just sold our gym launch system for $6,000 to the gym in Boise. What? I thought we were doing weight loss. Yeah, I know. So did I. But she waited. I think we're still in the gym business. I think we were just doing it wrong. She needed more details. I didn't have any yet. I'm going to call the gyms we plan to launch next month and see if they'll buy it, too. Uh, okay. She said. The next call went the same except when he said, "How much?" I said, " $8,000." He agreed. Next call, same thing, except I said $10,000. He agreed. All eight gyms we plan to launch said yes to licensing the launch materials instead. In a single day, I collected $60,000 selling something with zero cost to fulfill. In a single day, I was a third of the way out of my $150,000 prison. I spent 5 years developing that advertising system. It finally paid off. Doing the thing that scared me most, giving away my secrets, led to the biggest breakthrough in my life. I can't believe it. I said, I think we can get out of this. So, are we not doing the weight loss thing? No, I guess not. I think we've had something here all along. We just had to put the pieces together. Do you think anyone else will buy it? I'm going to call the 30 gyms we already launched. They know our system works because we did it in front of them. We also have some gym owner leads from that conference. That should cover the $150,000 and give us a clean slate. Okay, then what is this? What we're going to do? She looked for some well-deserved stability. I mean, I think so. It makes more money than the other thing, and it's way easier to deliver. She agreed. So, after I call those leads, I'll start running ads. I'll post our success stories in a few gym groups to get leads from there. And I'll also tell the gyms I'll pay $2,000 cash for any gym they send that signs up. That gives us ad leads, content leads, and referral leads. In the next 30 days, we made $215,000 in profit. We covered the $150,000 in refunds with cash to spare. We did so well because the average gym using our advertising system added an extra $30,000 in cash in their first 30 days. It made them more money than they paid for it. It delivered in spades. Plus, they got to keep all the cash. They loved it. Referrals poured in. I found the processing records from May June 2017, the month it all happened. We finished that first year at $6,820,000 in revenue. The next calendar year, we did $25,900,000 in revenue and $17 million in profit. Yeah, tens of millions. It was insane. Like nuts. The company continues to this day with 4,500 plus gym locations and counting. And no one is more surprised than me. Something I made actually worked. Finally, in 2018, we started Prestige Labs to sell supplements through our gym client base. We used Prestige Labs and the gyms as an affiliate network to generate weight loss leads for each other. In 2019, we started Allen, a new type of software company that worked leads for local businesses. In 2020, we founded Acquisition.com as a holding company for our business interests. In 2021, we sold 75% of Allen to a bigger company. I'm not allowed to say for how much, but Allen did $12 million in revenue in the prior 12 months. So, you can use your imagination. We sold 66% of our supplement and gym licensing business to American Pacific Group at a $46,200,000 valuation. And that was after taking $42 million in owner pay over the first four years. I share this because I can still hardly believe it. All this was because of a girl who believed in me, a credit card, and the ability to get leads. Important disclaimer. Knowing how to get leads saved my business, my reputation, and likely my life. It was the only way I stayed afloat. It was the reason I kept getting second, third, fourth, and fifth chances. I advertised a lot of different things in a lot of different ways. I advertised to get member leads for local gyms. I advertised to get online weight loss leads for Leila. I advertised to get gym owner leads to sell business services. I advertise to get affiliate leads for our supplement company. I advertise to get agency leads for our software and so on. Getting leads has been my get out of jail free card with no expiration date. And at this point, it's faded and worn with use. I like to share this skill with you. I can show you how to get more leads. And here is your first piece of good news. By reading these words, you're already in the top 10%. Most people buy stuff and never crack it open. I'll also throw out a spoiler. The further you read, the bigger the nuggets get. Just watch. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. Thank you for allowing me to do work I find meaningful. Thank you for lending me your most valuable asset, your attention. I promise to do my best to give you the highest possible return on it. This book delivers. The world needs more entrepreneurs. It needs more fighters. It needs more magic. And that's what I'm sharing with you. Magic. The problem this book solves leads. Lots of leads. You have a problem. You're not getting as many leads as you want because you're not advertising enough. Period. As a result, your potential customers are ignorant of your existence. How sad. This means less money flows your way. So now that you know you have a problem, unless you hate helping people and making money, you kind of have to solve it. How this book solves it. To make more money, you've got to grow your business. You can only grow your business in two ways. One, get more customers. Two, make them worth more. That's it. I grow our portfolio companies with this exact framework. $100 million leads focuses on number one getting more customers. You get more customers by getting one more leads, two better leads, three cheaper leads. For reliably, think from lots of places. Bottom line, all else being equal, when you double your leads, you double your business. This book shows you how to transform your business into a lead getting machine. Once you apply its models, you instantly increase lead flow. And like cash flow, when leads flow, it's hard not to make money. This book will solve your not getting enough leads problem for good. In a nutshell, I will show you how to get strangers to want to buy your stuff. What's in it for me? In one word, trust. I give this book and the course that comes with it for free or at cost in hopes of earning your trust. I want this book to provide more value than any $1,000 course, $30,000 coaching program, or $100,000 degree. Although I could sell these materials that way, I don't want to. I have a different model. I explain it below. Who am I looking to help? I want to provide value to two types of entrepreneurs. The first is under $1 million per year in profit. My goal is to help you get to $1 million in profit per year for free and in so doing earn your trust. Try a couple of tactics from this book. Get some leads, then try a few more and get more leads. The more leads you get, the better. Do enough and you become the second type of entrepreneur. The type making over $1 million in EBITDA, fancy word for profit per year. Once you get there, or if that's you now, it would be my honor to invest in your business and help you scale. I don't sell coaching, masterminds, courses, or anything like that. I invest. I buy equity in growing profitable bootstrap companies. Then I use the systems, resources, and teams of all my companies to fasttrack the growth of your company. But don't believe me yet. We just met. Author note, our investment criteria have changed since last book. If you notice some changes in our investment criteria, you're right. We changed our minimum investment threshold from $3 million in revenue to $1 million in profit. On top of that, we also used to primarily invest in education and service businesses, but our portfolio has expanded. We've done quite well outside of those industries. So now as long as a business meets our size requirements and is profitable, cash flowing and growing, we consider investing in it. My business model is simple. One, provide better free products than the marketplace's paid products. Two, earn the trust of entrepreneurs who make over $1 million per year in profit. Three, invest in those entrepreneurs to fasttrack their growth. Four, help everyone else for free for good. Our process reverse engineers success. The winners know my models will work for them because they already have. And I know the winners will use them because they already do. So, we operate on shared trust. This approach avoids failures and increases the likelihood of success. Win-win. Easy to say, but let me show you how much of a difference our process makes. Within the first 12 months, our average portfolio company 1.8x excess revenue and 3.01 zero 1xs profits and we partner for the long haul. That's just the first 12 months. Our average portfolio company who's been with us between 12 and 24 months, 2.3x excess revenue and 4.7 excess profits. As a fun exercise, plug your numbers in to see what that would look like for you. This stuff works. That's how I know the models I'm about to show you work. They already have. acquisition.com's mission to make real business accessible to everyone. Businesses solve problems. Businesses make the world better. There are too many problems for any one person to solve. And I can't cure cancer and hunger or solve the world's energy crisis for now. But I can provide value to the entrepreneurs who build the businesses that will. I want to help create as many businesses as possible so we can solve as many problems as we can. So I share these business building frameworks rather than hoard them. Fair enough. Cool. Let's press on. Basic outline of this book. I laid this book out from zero clients, zero leads, zero advertising, zero money, zero skills section two to max clients, max leads, max advertising, max money, and max skills section 4. We learn more skills as we progress in the book. And when we have more skills, we can get more leads in the same amount of time. So, we finish with the most complex skills that get us the most leads for our time spent. We save them for the end because they take lots of skills and money. And getting good and having money takes time. I want this book to help a person get their first five clients and crack their first $10 million month and beyond. This order also reminds those with skills and money, me included, of the basics we stopped doing. Our businesses deserve better. Respecting the tried and trueue methods that got you to your current level will probably get you to the next one. Masters never don't do the basics. So, we go from getting your first lead all the way to building a $100 million plus leads machine. Here's the breakdown. Section one, you're about to finish reading it right now. Section two, I reveal what makes advertising really work. Most entrepreneurs think about advertising the wrong way. Since they think about advertising the wrong way, they do the wrong stuff to get leads. You want to do the right stuff to get leads. This is the way. Section three, we learn advertising's core four. There are only four ways to get leads. So, if there's a most important how to section, it's this one. Section four, we learn how to get other people, customers, employees, agencies, and affiliates to do it all for you. And this completes the assembly of your fully functioning $100 million leads machine. Section five, we wrap up with a one-page advertising plan you can use to get more leads today. Section two, get understanding advertising simplified. In this section, we cover three things to make sure advertising does exactly what we want it to do. First, we talk about what a lead actually is. If we want more of them, then we better be darn well sure we're talking about the same thing. Second, we learn how to separate leads that make you money from leads that waste your time. Third, I show you the best ways I know to get the leads that make you money to show interest in the stuff you sell. Let's dive in. Leads alone aren't enough. If you cannot explain something in simple terms, then you don't understand it. Dr. Richard Fineman, Nobel Prize winner in physics. I'll let you in on a little secret. This book started because somebody asked me what a lead was. You think it would be simple, but I couldn't give a straight answer. And after 6 months of trying to figure it out, I was more confused than before. It became clear I didn't know as much about leads as I thought. My search for a clear definition of a lead snowballed into the massive project that became $100 million leads. All this to say, we've got to agree on what the heck a lead is before we dive head first into getting them. So, what's a lead anyways? Someone who clicks an ad, a phone number, a person that schedules a call, a list of names, a door you knock on, a walk-in, an email address, a subscriber, a person that sees your content, etc. You see, words matter because they affect how we think. How we think affects what we do. And if words have us thinking the wrong way, then we will probably do the wrong stuff. I hate doing the wrong stuff. So to do the right stuff more and the wrong stuff less, it's best we know what words mean and use them. To cut the suspense, a lead is a person you can contact. That's all. If you bought a list of emails, those are leads. If you get contact information from a website or database, those are leads. The numbers in your phone are leads. People on the street are leads. If you can contact them, they are leads. But what I came to realize was leads alone aren't enough. We want engaged leads. People who show interest in the stuff you sell. If someone gives their contact information on a website, that is an engaged lead. If someone follows you on social media and you can contact them, that is an engaged lead. If people reply to your email campaign, they're engaged leads. The leads showing interest are the leads that matter. Engaged leads are the true output of advertising. Getting more engaged leads is the point of this book. But I couldn't call the book engaged leads because no one would get it. But now you do. So the next question is, how do we get leads to engage? Engager leads offers and lead magnets. I don't do drugs. I'm drugs. Salvador Dolly. April 2016, I paid $25,000 to be in this group. And everyone told me to do a webinar. In fact, my men at the time told me, "Do a webinar every week until you make a million dollars." Until then, don't ask me about anything else. This is my only path to success. I've got to figure this out. A webinar, as I understood it, was a magical presentation with a zillion slides. If somebody watched, it would hypnotize them into buying my thing. There was so much I didn't know. Landing pages, registration pages, follow-up emails, replay emails, cart close emails, presentation software, website integration, writing ads, making ad creative, figuring out where to put the ads, who to show the ads to, building a payment page, processing payments, never mind making the actual webinar. The list overwhelmed me. So, I started with what I understood most, the landing page. I built a few of those for my gyms. My mentor made millions with webinars. So, I modeled his landing page, but I didn't need it to make millions. I just needed it to make something. Okay, now the thank you page. An entire Sunday later, the thank you page went live. Now, for the big test. I put my email into the landing page, clicked sign me up, and waited. My brand new thank you page loaded. success. I still wasn't a millionaire. Sad face, but it was something. The following Sunday, I sat down for my regular work on the business. Not in the business ritual. I had 10 hours to figure out the next piece of this webinar puzzle. After my first cup of coffee, I decided I didn't really want to work, but I still wanted to feel productive. So, I went to my advertising groups forum to get some tips. Just got off my webinar. $32,000 in an hour. I roied the entire tuition in my first week. Webinars rock. I'm never going to make this work. He joined the same month as me. He was in the same industry as me. He figured out how to make money with his webinar before me. He was stealing all the clients before I even got a chance. Everyone is making money except me. Desperate, I called other people in the group. I will do anything for your business. Build a sales team, write your sales scripts, fix your sales process, anything. just help me finish this webinar, please. One person agreed to help me. Thank God. Eight Sundays later, and a little circle next to my ad campaign turned green. It's alive. I was officially spending $150 per day on ads. All I had to do now was watch the money pour in. I was going to be rich. 3 days, $450, 80 leads, and zero sales later, I shut it all down. I suck. No one even watched my webinar. Meanwhile, that guy posted again about how much money he was making off this webinar stuff. Why do I suck so much? I spent most of my money to join this group, and I just set another $450 on fire. I didn't have the money to fail again. I needed the next thing to work. And if I couldn't even get anyone to watch, what was the point? The case study. I scrolled my news feed to see what other people were doing. And that caught my eye. free case study on how I spent $1 and made $123,000 in a weekend or something like that. I punched in my email and the page sent me to a video of walking through a successful advertising campaign. Nothing fancy, no slides, nobody presenting, just a dude explaining how his stuff worked. This I can do. I fired up my screen recorder. Okay, everyone. So, here's the ad account of gym we just launched. Here are the ads we ran. This is how much we spent. We sent them to this page with this offer. You can see how many leads we got here. They got this many people scheduled. This many showed. This is how many they sold. This is how much the gym owner made. This is everything we did. If you want help setting something like this up, we'll do the whole thing for free. And we only get paid off the sales you make. If that sounds fair, book a call. It took maybe 13 minutes. Simple. I swapped the webinar out for this video and changed the headline. free case study. How we added 213 members and $112,000 in revenue to a small gym in San Diego. They would book a call on the next page. I set up a fresh ad campaign and went to bed. The next morning, Alex, what did you do? Ila asked. What do you mean? Strangers have booked my calendar solid for like the next week. Really? Yeah. Did you start a new campaign or something? Yeah, but I didn't think it would go live so fast. Wait, people booked calls. Yeah, tons. Seeing Leila's calendar stacked with appointments filled me with joy. It's working. I learned an important lesson. They didn't want my webinar, but they didn't want my case study. This accidental discovery showed me how getting leads actually works. You have to give people something they want. The best part is it's easier than you think. Off a note, webinars still work. Obviously, they work for the other guy in my group, but I didn't have the skills at the time to make it work. I was so scarred from my first experience, I didn't try another webinar for years. Spend your time testing the offer rather than perfecting an untested product. This was my breakthrough. I just needed to give people something simple that they wanted. For gym owners, it was a case study showing how I filled gyms in 30 days. Leads magnets. Get leads to engage. Offers are what you promise to give in exchange for something of value. Often a business promises to give its product or service in exchange for money. This is a core offer. If you advertise your core offer, then yo