# Part 9 of 20

 is to actually know something about the person you are contacting. In essence, we want our cold reach out to look like a warm reach out. Imagine your phone rings from an unknown number and area code. Are you likely to pick it up? Probably not. What about if the number is from your area code? A little more likely. Why is that? Because it might be someone you know. So to take this concept further, imagine you pick up the phone. The person says your name, then pausing like a normal person. You'd say, "Yeah, who's this?" Now, if that person then went on to say, "It's Alex." Then pauses, "I watched a few of your videos and read that recent blog post you wrote on dog training. It was killer. Really helped me out with my Doberman. She's a beast. That peanut butter trick really helped. Thanks for that." You'd still be wondering what's going on. But you know what? You wouldn't be doing hanging up. Then you hear, "Oh yeah, sorry. I got ahead of myself. I work for a company that helps dog trainers fill up their books. We like to partner with the best in the area. So I'm always on the lookout. We work with someone about an hour north from you, John's Doggy Daycare. Heard of them?" You'd respond yes or no. It doesn't matter. and they'd say, "Yeah, we ended up getting them 100 appointments in 30 days using a combination of text, email, and some ads. Do you offer similar services to them?" To which you'd probably say, "Yes." Then they'd say, "Oh, that's perfect." Then we'd be able to use that same campaign in your market and drive leads over to you. If you got a boatload of highpaying new dog training customers, you wouldn't be upset with me, would you? You'd laugh lightly. Okay, great. Well, tell you what, I can walk you through the entire thing, soup to nuts, later today. Will you be around at 4:00? And you'd say, "Sure," or whatever. The point is, if that person had started the call with, "Hey man, want to buy some marketing services?" You'd probably have hung up. Personalization is what gets your foot in the door to get the sale. Basically, one to three pieces of information we can find that a friend might know about the prospect. Then we want to compliment them on it and ideally show them how it benefited us. People like people who like them. Even if someone doesn't know you, they'll give you more time if you know something about them. This comes in handy for personal subject lines on emails, the first few messages in chat, or the first few sentences someone hears. Even if someone doesn't know you, they will appreciate the time you took to research them before contacting them. This tiny effort goes a long way. Action step. Do a little research on each lead before you send them a message. We can do this ourselves. Pay people to do it for us or use software. Batch this work. Then use your notes to figure out the first thing you'll open with to feel more familiar. Pro tip: 50% email response rate bump. I took our cold outreach template and rewrote it below a third grade reading level. The results, 50% more leads responded. I recommend running all scripts and messages through a free reading level app online. I won't recommend one because they go out of business all the time, but I promise you can find one. Make your messages easier to understand and more people will respond. B, they don't trust us big fast value. The key difference between people who know you and strangers is strangers give you far less time to prove your worth and they need a lot more incentive to move towards you. So, make your life easier by giving away the farm. We're not trying to tickle their interest. We're trying to blow their minds in under 30 seconds. Like warm reachouts, you can directly make your offer or offer a lead magnet or both. It gives the person a strong reason to respond. I specifically call out big fast value rather than your lead magnet as a reminder that it needs to be big fast value. If it's not or it's mediocre, you'll blend in with the ocean of people trying to get their attention and they'll treat you the same. They'll ignore you. Here's how much it matters. The first 4 months of cold outreach felt like torture. We offered a game planning session as our lead magnet. Some gyms took us up on it, but most didn't. We needed something better. I tested many parts of our process, but swapping the lead magnet blew everything else out of the water. We swapped from game planning code for sales call to actually giving them as much free service as we could possibly afford. Our take rates 3XD and cold outreach became a monster channel for us. If your offer/lead magnet isn't working for you, up the Annie. Keep offering more until you make it so good they feel stupid saying no. They either buy from you or have nice things to say about you. Win-win. If you forget everything about this chapter, remember one thing. The goal is to demonstrate big value as fast as possible. Give yourself a downhill battle by giving away something crazy. Give away something for free people would normally pay for and they will want it. Note, I didn't say so good they should pay for it. I said stuff they actually pay for. Big difference. Take this to heart and your results will show it. Action step. Provide the biggest, fastest value you can afford to with your lead magnet or offer. Then write your scripts. And don't worry, I got your back there. To give you a head start, I provide sample phone, email, and direct message scripts at the end of the chapter. Note, phone and chat scripts are never more than a page or two, and cold emails rarely more than half a page. So don't overthink it. There are no awards for prettiest a script. Get your first 100 conversations or 10,000 emails out of the way before tweaking it. Get testing, then tweak as you learn. Problem number three, I'm not getting enough chances to tell people about my amazing stuff. What do I do? Volume. Once we have our list of names, personal info, and our big sexy lead magnet, we need to get more strangers to see it. We do this in three ways. First, we automate delivery to the greatest extent possible. Next, we automate distribution to the greatest extent possible. Finally, we follow up more times in more ways. Hey, automated delivery to the extent that we can. Automating delivery unlocks huge scale as someone doesn't need to literally communicate the message to the prospect. This means you get more engaged leads per unit of time, even if fewer engage by overall percentage. Remember, you have far more people who don't know you than people who do. So, you don't have to worry as much about burning through an audience. Here's what the difference between manual and automated delivery looks like. Manual examples. A live person can say a script to someone over the phone. You can send a personal voice memo to each lead. A person can write a handwritten letter to every person on the list. If it takes a person time to convey the message each time, it's manual. Automated examples. We can send a pre-recorded voice memo to someone's direct messages. We can send a pre-recorded voicemail to someone's voicemail box. We can send templated emails to an inbox or a templated text to someone's phone. We can send a pre-recorded video, etc. You record your message one time and then send the same message to everyone. Pro tip: Use technology that gets you more engaged leads for your time. Every day, artificial intelligence, deep fakes, and other technology advance. They become more indistinguishable from human communication. This means we will be able to automate elements of what we currently are forced to spend time on. Embrace technology as it comes out to reap the rewards. Ultimately, technology serves a single purpose to get us more output per unit time. Use it. B. Automate distribution. Once we have our messages prepared, we got to distribute them. And there's no award for who works the hardest, only for who gets the best results. Although one leads to the other. And as you build your skills, you will find ways to automate portions of the work. I encourage you to automate when ethical and available. Manual examples. Dial each phone number. Click send on each email, direct message, text, etc. Automated examples. Use a robot to dial multiple numbers at a time. Send a blast of 1,000 emails, texts, voicemails at one time, etc. Generally speaking, you sacrifice personalization for scale. You get a higher response rate with personalized messages. The fewer leads you have, the less automation you should use. For example, if there are only 1,000 hedge fund managers who meet your criteria, you're going to want to personalize every one of them. On the other hand, if you're targeting women 25 to 45 trying to lose weight, there are tens of millions of them. So, you can get away with less personalization. But if you personalize, you'll get even more wink. Pro tip: personalization tech. The perfect combination for maximum leads is max personalization with max volume. And with tech, you don't always sacrifice personalization for scale. Every day data becomes more accessible to find personal data. If you can set up the tech to accomplish both personalization and volume, you create a deadly effective lead getting combo. Action step. Embrace new technology. Allocate 10 to 20% of your effort towards brand new untested technology. For example, if you make phone calls five days per week, try out a new dialer or tech one of the days and see how it does compared to your standard dialer. See, follow up more times, more ways. There are two more ways you can get more from your list of names. First, you try to contact them more than once. Shocker, but want to know something crazy most people don't. Here's a different way to think about it. Imagine you really needed to get a hold of your parents because something important came up. What would you do? You'd probably call them, text them, leave a voicemail, etc. And if they still haven't responded, what would you do? You'd call and text them again, probably shortly thereafter. It's the same way with prospects. They are in danger of living life without your solution. Be a hero. Save them. The more ways you try to contact someone, the more likely you are to contact them. People respond to different methods. For example, I never respond to phone calls, but I reply to direct messages far more. Contacting someone multiple times, multiple ways shows them you are serious, and doing so quickly communicates you have something important to discuss. Curiosity increases because they fear they're missing out. Personally, I like to email first. You know why? Because most people don't respond. If someone doesn't respond to one of your reachout methods, use that as a reason to follow up with another method. Hey, I'm calling you to follow up about my email. We either get a response or a real reason to reach out again. We went either way. And once you do get them booked for an appointment, expect more than one conversation. Remember, we're contacting complete strangers. Outreach takes more touch points with people who don't know you. So, expect two to three conversations before a higher ticket sale. Shoot for less, but expect more when you start out. Bottom line, act like you're actually trying to get a hold of these people rather than going through the motions, and you probably will. Action step, contact each lead multiple times in multiple ways. Pro tip, don't be an income poop. If someone asks you not to contact them, don't contact them again. Not because there isn't a chance it could work, but because for the same effort, you could reach out to someone who isn't already negatively inclined. It's just more efficient to turn neutrals to yes than no to yes. On top of that, you don't want a bad reputation. That kind of stuff follows you. Try hard because you have a genuine desire to solve their problems, but be respectful. Second, once you finish contacting your list, start back at the top again. This actually works for three reasons. One, because they simply may not have seen your first series of messages. Only a fool would think 100% of people see what you put out 100% of the time. So, we make up for that discrepancy with follow-up. Two, even if they do see it, it may not have been a good moment to respond. People's schedules change every day, and there are times when people can't respond to you even if they wanted to. So, the more opportunities you give them to respond, the greater the chance they will. Three, their circumstances may have changed. They might not have needed you then, but need you desperately now. Imagine a person you message about losing weight before the holidays. At that time, they fit into their skinny jeans, so they feel no pain. They probably wouldn't respond, but after they gained 10 lbs over the holidays, they may all of a sudden be in desperate need of what you offer. And now they respond to your reachout attempt. The only thing that changed was their circumstance. So try again in 3 to 6 months and get an entirely new group of engaged leads from the same list. Everything may be right except the timing. So the more times we contact them, the more likely we will catch them at the time they're ready to engage. Action step. After you've attempted to contact them multiple times, multiple ways, wait 3 to 6 months, then do it again. Pro tip. If you're new to an outreach team, shadow the best guy on the team, then double their inputs. If they make 200 calls, make 400. If that means you work more, duh, you'll suck before you are good. You can make up for your lack of skill with volume. Volume negates luck. And when you do twice as many, you'll get good in half the time. Once you beat their numbers, then you can get cute and try new things. Replicate before you iterate. Three problems strangers create solved. I wrote the book in this order to build on itself. Start with warm reachouts. Get some reps. Post some content to grow your warm audience. Get even more reps. Then you'll be ready for cold reachouts. And now we solve the three core problems cold audiences create. Finding the right list of people, getting them to pay attention to you, and getting them to engage. Victory. Author note for people with low ticket products. I had trouble making cold outreach profitable when selling from my direct to consumer business. Cold outreach teams are expensive and my average ticket wasn't high enough. But I learned I could make a low ticket product a high ticket product if I sold a lot at once. So I switched from using cold outreach to get customers to using cold outreach to get affiliates who got customers for me. There were two ways that worked. Either I'd sell the affiliates lots of products in bulk upfront. Then they'd sell my products to their customers. Or I'd use cold outreach to recruit them, then get them to sell my products to their customers and receive a commission after the sale. One affiliate sale can be worth thousands of customers. Both ways transform my low ticket sale into a high ticket sale by selling many at once. So, the numbers pencil out. If you have trouble using cold outreach for your direct to consumer business, consider going after affiliates instead. More on this in the affiliates chapter later. Benchmarks. How well am I doing? The two times I failed at cold outreach, I hired people who never track metrics well. The third person did and cold reach out succeeded. The person who runs it, maybe you, has to know the metrics of the sales process like the back of their hand. Every single stat. Let's break down the numbers with a couple platform examples. I cannot give an example for every platform because it would take too long. My hope is that you can generalize the concept to whatever platform you use. Phone example, let's say I make 100 cold calls per day and let's say I get a 20% pickup rate. From there, I am able to get 25% of people to want to take my lead magnet. That means I got four engaged leads. If it took me 4 hours to make those calls, it means I got one engaged lead per hour. I can do this at first. Once the amount of engaged leads that convert to customers makes me more than it costs to pay a cold outreach rep, I teach someone else to do it for me. More on this in section four. So, you know you do well when you make at least three times the lifetime profit of a customer compared to what it costs you to get them. Email example. Let's say you send 100 personalized emails per day. From there, 30% open our email. From there, 10% reply showing interest. That means we'd have three engaged leads. 30% x 10% equals 3%. The numbers will vary, but shoot for 3% of your list turning into engaged leads. Here's a sample from a new campaign for a very niche high ticket service business in our portfolio. It shows a 4% lead engagement rate and presumably a third of them convert into sales. That would net us one new customer per 100 outreach attempts. Direct message example. Let's say I make a personal video or record a personal voice memo for 100 people. I say their name and add one personal line before delivering my standard message. From there, 20% of people reply. We now have 20 engaged leads. From there, we use the same ACA format from the warm outreach section to qualify them for a call and so forth. So, like the phone example, you know you do well when the cost of doing cold outreach is less than three times what you make in profit from a customer. Note, you can do way better than three times. That's the bare minimum. For context, the portfolio company above gets over 30 colon one returns from its outreach efforts. Costs. This method is labor intensive. Nearly all costs are in the form of labor. In order to calculate our return on advertising, we add up all labor and software costs associated with steps one through three in the section before last. Let's imagine we have a team doing cold calls. We pay them $15 per hour and $50 per shown appointment or shows. We have $3,600 in profit per sale. Leads cost us 10. They call 200 leads per day. We would likely get about two shows per day from one rep. If they worked eight hours per day, we would pay $120 in labor and $100 in show commissions per rep and $20 for the leads. This means we would pay $240 for two shows or $120 per show. If we closed $33% of shows, our cost to get a client excluding commissions would be $360. Since we get $3,600 profit per new client, we would make a 10 col1 return. That's how cold outreach works. Then you just add bodies is boring and tedious but brutally effective. Pro tip: give each rep an explicit number of leads to work every week. They should care for these leads like they are their children. If you give a rep too many, they will waste them. If someone can work 100 leads at full capacity, I'll give them 70ish. That way, they have time and energy to squeeze everything they can out of the leads they've got. And since all reps get the same amount of leads every week, you can give them absolute quotas for deals. Example, I give you 70 leads. You give me back seven appointments. I pay you. No leads left behind. This sounds hard. Why bother? Most people dramatically underestimate the amount of volume it takes to use cold outreach. They also underestimate how long it takes. But there are seven enormous benefits to using cold outreach. One, you don't need to create lots of content or ads. You focus only on one perfectly crafted message you convey to all your prospects. Your only goal is to make that one message better every day. There is no ad fatigue or banner blindness since your prospects have never seen anything from you. So, you don't need to be a marketing genius to make this work. Two, your competition won't know what you're doing. Everything is private. By that fact alone, you can continue to ope