# Part 4 of 20

. If you sold 1,000x the customers tomorrow, could you handle it? If not, you have some limit to how much you can sell. Maybe you're limited by customer service, onboarding, inventory, time slots per week, etc. Don't keep it a secret. Advertise it. This gives you ethical scarcity. If you can't handle more than five new customers per week, say so. Draw attention to the natural scarcity in your business. If you have limitations, you may as well use them to make money. X the most convenient class times fill up fast. Call now to get the one you want. I can only handle five people per week, so if you want it solved soon, do X. We only printed one batch of shirts and we'll never reprint this design. Get one so you don't regret missing out forever. B, urgency. You can have unlimited units to sell, but let's say you stop selling them in an hour on purpose. I bet more people than normal will buy your thing in that hour. This is urgency in action. Urgency is when people act faster because they have a short amount of time. And the less time people have, the faster, more urgent they tend to act. So, if you make the time they can act on your CTA shorter, you can get more of them to act on it faster. You can also use the same urgency with discounts or bonuses that go away after x minutes or hours, after which this offer will never be available again. X. Our July 4th promotion ends Monday at midnight. So if you want it, take action now. Our Black Friday promotion ends at midnight. There are only 4 hours left. Get it while the getting's good. Through Friday, I'll also throw in a free hat to anyone who buys more than three books. So, if you want to look slick in an acquisition.com hat by now, pro tip, the urgency tactic I use the most. I put time limits on bonuses. This way, I don't need to change my pricing or products all the time. I can just change the bonus. I like to make a handful of valuable bonuses and rotate them each week. And if they don't take action by the end of the week, they'll actually miss out on the bonus. The best part is that it's an easy way to make CTAs more effective without capping sales. C. Fraternity party planner. My favorite. Make up a reason. Fraternities don't need a reason to party, but they sure make up some doozies. John got his wisdom teeth removed. Kegger Margarita Monday, Toga Tuesdays, Thursday, etc. Your reason doesn't even have to make sense and it will still get more people to act. In fact, Harvard ran an experiment showing that people were more likely to let someone cut in line if they only gave a reason. The number of people that let others cut increased if the reason made sense, like scarcity and urgency. But any reason still works better than no reason. So, I always try to include one. Think the stuff you say after the word because. Examples: Because moms know best. Because your country needs you. because it's my birthday and I want you to celebrate with me. Action step, give a clear, simple, actionoriented CTA. Then give them a reason why using scarcity, urgency, and any other reasons you can think of. And do it often. Don't be clever, be clear. Even if your lead magnet costs money to deliver, it should still lower your cost to get a new customer. This is because more engaged leads means more chances to get customers. and the extra customers more than cover your costs. That's the point. Let's say you make $10,000 of profit on your core offer and it costs you $1,000 in advertising to get someone on a call for it. If you close one out of three people, it costs you $3,000 in advertising to get a customer. Since we have $10,000 in profit to work with, that's fine. But we're savvy. We can do better. So, let's do better. Imagine you advertise a free lead magnet instead of your core offer. Your lead magnet costs you $25 to deliver. And because it's free to them, more will engage. The extra engagement means it only costs $75 in advertising to get someone on a call. Allin, it's $100 per call. By delivering value before they buy, you get 10 times more engaged leads for the same cost. Note, this happens all the time when you nail the lead magnet. Now, let's say one out of 10 folks who get the lead magnet buys your core offer. This means your new cost to acquire a customer is $1,000. $100 x10 people. We just cut our cost to get a customer by 3x. So, instead of spending $3,000 to get a new customer by using a lead magnet, we spend only $1,000. Given we make $10,000, that's a 10 colon one return. So, if we keep our advertising budget the same and use a lead magnet, we triple our business. Remember, the goal is to print money, not just make our fair share. This is where experienced business owners beat newbies. With a $25 budget to deliver your lead magnet, you can provide far more value than a $0 budget. Crazy, I know. You attract more customers because your lead magnet is more valuable than other people's. oftentimes by a lot. This translates into more strangers becoming engaged leads. It also translates into more sales because you provided value in advance. Win win. Action steps. Step zero. If you're struggling to get leads, make an amazing lead magnet. Step one, figure out the problem you want to solve for the right customer. Step two, figure out how you want to solve it. Step three, figure out how to deliver it. Step four, make the name interesting and clear. Step five, make it easy to consume. Step six, make sure it's darn good. Step seven, tell them what to do next, why it's a good idea, do it clearly, and do it often. Section two, conclusion. My goal with this book is to demystify the lead getting process. In the first chapter, we covered why leads alone aren't enough. You need engaged leads. In the second chapter, we covered how to get leads to engage a valuable lead magnet or offer. And a good lead magnet does four things. One, engages ideal customers when they see it. Two, gets more people to engage than your core offer alone. Three, is valuable enough that they consume it. For makes the right people more likely to buy, so more people show interest in our stuff. We make more money from them and we deliver more value than we ever have all at the same time. Next up, we've armed ourselves with a powerful lead magnet. Now, I'll show you the four ways we can advertise it. In other words, now that we have this stuff, we got to tell people about it. Let's get some leads. Section three, get leads. The core for advertising methods. We get engaged leads by letting people know about our stuff. And there are two types of people we let know. People who know us and people who don't. And there are two paths of letting them know about it. One to one and one to many. Those combine into the four basic ways one person can let other people know about anything. Let's break down how we can use those four ways to get us leads. Two types of audiences, warm and cold. Warm audiences are people who gave you permission to contact them. Think people who know you, aka friends, family, followers, current customers, previous customers, contacts, etc. Cold audiences are people who have not given you permission to contact them. Think strangers, aka other people's audiences. Buying contact lists, making contact lists, paying platforms for access, etc. The difference matters because it changes how we advertise to them. Two ways to communicate. One to one private, one to many public. We can contact people one to one or one to many. Another way of thinking about this is private or public communication. Private communication is when only one person gets a message at a time. Think phone call or email. If you announce something publicly, many people can get it at the same time. Think social media posts or billboards or podcasts. Now, automation can make this seem confusing. Don't let it. Automation just means some of the work is done by machines. The nature of the communication stays the same. Email, for instance, is onetoone. Emailing a 10,000 person list once is more like onetoone really fast by a machine. Automation, which we cover later, is one of the many ways we can get leads on steroids. like audiences, the difference between public and private communication matters because they change how we advertise. Section three, outline, get leads. Combining warm and cold audiences with onetoone and one to many leads us to the only four ways we can let anyone know about anything. The core four, I combined them below for you. One to a warm audience equals warm outreach. One to many to a warm audience equals posting content. One to one to a cold audience equals cold outreach. One to many to a cold audience equals paid ads. These are the only four things you can do to let other people know about the stuff you sell. And each method takes us one step closer to the land of overflowing leads. I refer to the core four throughout the rest of the book. So get to know them. In fact, make them part of yourself. Once you do, you'll have your own get out of jail free card to carry around forever. It will give you as many chances to succeed at business as you could ever want for the rest of your life. Or at least it has for me. So if you aren't getting as many leads as you want, you're not doing the core four with enough skill or with enough volume. We cover all this stuff in lots of detail. How they work, how to do them, when to do them, and show how to measure your progress along the way. This simplifies the overly confused world of advertising into four core actions. Either do them and get as many leads as you darn well please or get crushed by those who do. Number one warm outreach. How to reach out to people you know. The world belongs to those who can keep doing without seeing the result of their doing. May 2013. Starting out for the third time that day. I pulled out my phone and checked my bank account. $51,128.13. I let out a small sigh of relief. It's amazing how years of work and saving can fit into such a tiny screen. Feeling good for the moment, I switched over to social media to get more dopamine. Friends from college were applying to business school. Acceptance letters filled my news feed. I too started the business school application process. I had a choice. I could either quit my job and go to business school or I could quit my job and start a business. The application stared at me. How will a Harvard MBA help your short and long-term goals? That question changed my life. I spent three days trying to answer it. At the end of the third day, I saw the truth. It wouldn't. $150,000 in loans and 2 years without income wouldn't help me start a business. At least not as much as starting a business and taking 2 years to figure it out. I can make the same amount by the time I graduate and skip the debt. Or at least that's what I told myself. So, I quit my job and took the steps to start my business. I set up Impetus Group LLC. Check. I set up a business banking account. Check. I set up a merchant account to process payments. Check. There still wasn't any money coming in, but at least I felt legit. Impetus Group LLC. Say it out loud. The first person I told about my new business said, "Impotence. God, I suck. No wonder the name was available." I immediately changed it to the free training project name that doesn't suck. Check. I was in business, but I had a problem. I didn't know anything about advertising or sales, but I didn't know I needed clients. So, I just asked around where I could. I called, texted, and sent Facebook messages to a bunch of people I knew. Hey, do you know anyone who's trying to get into shape? I'm training people for free for 12 weeks. On top of that, I'll make them a custom nutrition plan and grocery list. All they have to do is donate to a charity of their choice and let me use their testimonial. Only six people said yes. Six two high school friends, one college friend, and three people they referred. I emailed everyone fitness plans and we got to work. We texted during the week to keep tabs on progress. Thankfully, they were all friends of mine, so they gave it their all. They encouraged me more than anyone in the beginning. A decade later, I still have their before and after pictures. And this is where the decision to skip business school started coming back to haunt me. A few months into this, I was less sure of myself. My pile of money didn't look as big without new money coming in every month, and it started turning into a real problem. So, after 12 weeks of the pay a charity period, I asked them to pay me instead. I was the charity now. Huh? I worried they'd be upset to pay me instead, but they didn't seem to mind. Once they got results, I asked them to send their friends over. To my surprise, I got another five or six clients from their referrals. I asked the referrals to pay me directly. Again, none of them minded. That little business made about $4,000 per month and replace the income from my first job. It gave me enough money to live on and some. My savings started to grow again. Sigh of relief. If this business sounds straightforward, that's because it was. I emailed clients their plans and they texted me the questions they had along the way. That's about it. So, if you're starting, you don't need a lot. All you need is a tax ID, a bank account, a way to take payments, and a way to communicate with people. But that last part, a way to communicate with people is the most important part. It's how you get leads. So, even though I had no idea I was doing warm reachouts, one of the core four is how I got my first leads, I still get leads this way, just with bigger numbers. And I'll show you how you can, too. How warm reachouts work. Warm reachouts are when you make one-to-one contact with your warm audience, aka the people who know you. It's the cheapest and easiest way to find people interested in the stuff you sell. It's super effective, and most businesses don't do it. Don't be like most businesses. Also, you do have a warm audience, even if you don't know it. Everybody knows somebody, so your personal contacts are the easiest place to start. Warm reachouts usually come in the form of calls, texts, emails, direct messages, voicemails, etc. And like we learned in section two, you advertise one of two things. You let them know about your lead magnet, something free and valuable, or you let them know about your core offer, the main thing you sell. When you start doing warm reachouts, you don't get many engaged leads for your time. You do everything on your own and make each message personal. But for that reason, it is reliable. As certain as the sun rises and sets, it works. Note, reaching out to your warm audience works whether you have 100 contacts or 1 million. So as your business grows, you will use automation and employees to make it more efficient. The systems start small with you, but they scale all the way up. I detail how to scale these systems to larger audiences in section 4. How to do warm reachouts in 10 steps. Warm reachouts are a fantastic way to get your first five clients for any new product or service. Advanced folks, think re-engagement and new product lines. Here's how to do it. Step one, get your list. Step two, pick a platform. Step three, personalize your message. Step four, reach out. Step five, warm them up. Step six, invite their friends. Step seven, make them the easiest offer in the world. Step eight, start at the top. Step nine, start charging. Step 10, keep your list warm. Step one, but I don't have any leads. Everyone has a list. You know other humans. Let me prove it to you. Grab your phone. Inside you have contacts. Each contact has subscribed to communication from you. They have given you the means and permission to contact them. Pull up all the email accounts you've used over the years. Pull your contacts and address list from each. Bingo. Look at all them leads. Now go to all your social media profiles. See your followers, subscribers, friends, connections, or whatever kids call them these days. Eureka, you got more leads. Add up all your contacts from all the platforms. Seriously, figure out the number. Between your phone, email, social media, and other platforms, you will have more than enough contacts to get started. For many of you, this will be your first 1,000 leads. Would you look at that? I don't have any leads. Just found some. And if you're terrified, you'll have to talk to people. Relax. You'll like what I'm going to show you next. Step two. but I don't know where to start. Pick a platform. Pick the platform you have the most contacts on. Phone, email, social media, mail, carrier, pigeon, etc. It doesn't matter. Just pick the one with the most contacts. You'll hit them all eventually anyways. Step three, but what do I say? Personalize your greeting. Use something you know about the contact as your actual reason to reach out. If you don't have much personal info, you can check their social media profiles, etc. to learn a bit about them first. Don't be a weirdo. Pay your social dues. Remember, you haven't asked for anything. You're just checking in and providing value. So, relax. X. So, you just had a baby. Congrats. How is the baby doing? How are you? Step four. Now, what? Reach out to 100 people every day. To get what you want, you have to deserve what you want. Charlie Mer. Now, reach out to 100 of them per day with your personalized messages. You'll call, text, email, message, send a postcard, etc. And you will reach out to them up to three times. Once per day for 3 days, or until they respond, whichever comes first, once per week with physical mail. Pro tip: rip off the band-aid. The first reach out is always the hardest and takes the longest. Your second reach out will take minutes. Your third seconds. Be okay with sucking. It's new. This is how we learn when thinking about starting new things. I remember this Chinese proverb. Everything must be hard before it can be easy. Step five. What do I say when they respond? Act like a human. Now we can break the ice without sounding icky. Reply using the ACA framework. Acknowledge what they said. Restate in your own words. This shows active listening. X. Two kids and you're an accountant. Compliment them on whatever they tell you. Tie it to a positive character trait if you can. Ex. Guom, so hardworking, managing a full-time career, and two kids. Ask another question. Lead the conversation in whatever direction you want. In this case, to a topic closer to your offer. Examples: therapy/life coaching. Do you get time for yourself? Fitness/weight loss. Do you have time to get workouts in cleaning services? Do you have anyone who helps you keep the house tidy? The ACA framework is great because it helps you talk to anyone. It just so happens it's also useful for letting people know about your stuff. This means you can learn about the person and guide the conversation toward your offer. People love talking about themselves, so let them. They also love to be complimented, so do that, too. And if people feel good when talking to you, they'll like and trust you more. You want people to like and trust you more. Besides, it's solid practice to find the good in everyone anyway. Speaking of practice, this will take practice, and that's okay. Pro tip, on email, you'll be more upfront. On email, you will have a personalized opener to show that you actually took time to research them in some way. Think two to three sentences. Then, you'll transition directly to your offer or lead magnet, which we talk about next. You sort of do it all at once with email or voicemails. Step six, how do I know if they're interested? Make them an offer. Get through a normal amount of conversation. Think three to four exchanges if on the phone or messaging and 3 to four minutes if in person. Then you'll make them an offer to see if 