# Part 11 of 20

ng your shoes? Do you have a home worth over $400,000? Three, if then statements. If they meet your conditions, then you help them make a decision. If you run over $100,000 per month in ads, we can save you 20% or more. If you were born between 1978 and 1986 in Muscogi, Oklahoma, you may qualify for a class action lawsuit. If you want XYZ, then pay attention. Four, ridiculous results. Bizarre, rare, or out of the ordinary stuff someone would want. Massage studio books out 2 years in advance. Clients furious. This woman lost 50 lbs eating pizza and fired her train of the government. is handing out thousand checks to anyone who can answer three questions, etc. Call outs don't have to be just words. They can also be noises or visuals in the environment. Let's go back to the cocktail party. Sure, a drop tray of dishes would get everyone's attention, but so would the cling cling cling of a knife against a champagne flute. They both get everyone's attention for different reasons. One signals an embarrassing disaster, and the other signals important news. But in either case, everyone still wants to know what happens next. So if the platform allows, good advertisers use verbal and non-verbal callouts together. Here's what I look for with non-verbal callouts. Using the setting and spokesperson to get attention. One, contrast. Any stuff that sticks out in the first few seconds, the colors, the sounds, the movements, etc. Note what catches your attention. Example, A. A bright shirt almost always gets more attention than a black or dull shirt. B. Attractive people almost always get more attention than plain looking people. C. Moving stuff almost always gets more attention than still stuff. Two, likeness. Think visually showing labels, features, traits, titles, places, and other descriptors that people identify with. Hey, people want to work with people who look, talk, and act in ways familiar to them. And you may not look, talk, or act in ways familiar to them. So, if you serve a broad customer base, use more ethnicities, ages, genders, personalities, etc. in your ads. If you serve a narrow customer base, X, medical devices for seniors, then use people who look like them. One, quack like a duck. If you want to attract ducks, look like a duck, walk like a duck, and quack like a duck. If you want to attract plumbers, dress like a plumber, talk like a plumber, be in a plumbing environment, even with the same message. Your ad will do far better if you look the part or find people who do. Two, if you see an ad for doctors, notice the spokesperson. What age are they? Gender, ethnicity, are they wearing a lab coat, a stethoscope, are they in a medical facility? All these things get a specific type of person interested in health rellated products and services to pay more attention than they would have otherwise. Three mascots also work well because they don't age, never ask for more money, and never take days off. Think Mickey Mouse for Disney, the Geico Gecko, Tony the Tiger for Kelloggs, the Michelin man, etc. A mascot is a great way to create an enduring spokesperson for your business. Four, advanced. Whichever likenesses you choose to use, if it's not you, the business becomes less dependent on you and therefore more sellable. You also may just be an ugly son of a gun. Plus, pretty people convert better. Anyways, good news is it doesn't cost much to get a pretty person to say stuff to a camera. Three, the scene. Think showing the yes questions and if then statements. Example, an ad with A. A person tossing and turning in bed calls out people with sleep troubles. B. A pair next to an hourglass can call out people with a pear-shaped body. C. A room full of stuff stacked to the ceiling calls out people with too much junk. D. A rock hitting a window calls out people with broken windows. E. A local lunge. Locals think, "Hey, I know that place." And pay attention. Now, this isn't an exhaustive list. Far from it. I show you these to pull back the curtain. This way you can see the infinite ways advertisers cut through the noise so you can too. Pro tip: Infinite ads. Here's one of the highest ROI tips I can give you about making ads. Record 10 or so new ads every week. But record 30 or more first sentences or questions to begin the ad. Think 5-second clips. These are the call outs people consume before deciding to watch more. With 30 callouts and 10 main ads, you can make 300 variations in a matter of hours. Once you know the best call out, you apply it to all ads. Action step. I'm always impressed with the clever and innovative ways advertisers call out their prospects. So instead of muting or hitting skip ad, look for the call outs. Become a student of the game. My goal is that for the rest of your life, when you see an ad, you turn up the volume. Now, once they've noticed our ad, it leads us to the second chunk of the ad. We need to get them interested. Two, get them interested. If people think an offer or lead magnet has big benefits and tiny costs, they value it. And they'll exchange money or contact information to get it. But if the cost outweighs the benefits, they don't value it and they won't. So, the best ads make the benefits look as big as possible and the costs look as small as possible. This makes an offer or lead magnet as valuable as it can be and gets the most engaged leads because of it. A good advertisement, paid or not, uses clear and simple ways to answer the question, why should I be interested in your thing? It tells people why they should want a lead magnet or offer. Now, there are a million ways to do this, but I'll share with you my what, who, when framework. This mental framework hinges on knowing the value equation forwards and backwards. So, all you have to do is know eight key things about your own product or service. How it fulfills each element of value for your prospect and how it helps them avoid their hidden costs. Remember those. Think of them like carrots versus sticks. How your offer delivers more good stuff and less bad stuff. Then think of the perspectives of the people who would experience them. Who? And finally, what time period when they'd have these experiences, positive or negative? In the words of David Oglevie, the customer isn't a She's your wife. So, you know what that means? Write to her. Ads cause the prospect to think questions to themselves. And a good ad answers those questions at precisely the time they think it. So, if you can answer what they're thinking with your ad using the words they'd use, you've won. So, let's start with the what. Eight key elements. Dream outcome. A good ad will show and tell the maximum benefit the prospect can achieve using the thing you sell. It should align with the ideal prospect's dream outcome for that sort of product or service. These are the results they experience after buying the thing. Opposite nightmare. A good ad will also show them the worst possible hassles, pain, etc. of going without your solution. In short, the bad stuff they'll experience if they don't buy. perceived likelihood of achievement because of past failures. We assume that even when we buy, there's a risk we don't get what we want. Lower perceived risk by minimizing or explaining away past failures. Emphasizing the success of people like them. Giving assurances by authority, guarantees, and how what you have to offer will at least give them a better chance of success than what they currently do, etc. Opposite risk. A good ad will also show them how risky it is to not act. What will their life be like if they carried on as they always have? Show how they will repeat their past failures and how their problems will get bigger and worse. Time delay. A good ad will also show them how slow their current trajectory is or that they'll never get what they want at their current rate. Opposite speed. To get things we want, we know we have to spend time getting them. A good ad will show and tell how much faster they will get the thing they want. Effort and sacrifice. A good ad will also show them the amount of work and skill they'll need to get the result without your solution and how they'll be forced to keep giving up the things they love and continue suffering from the things they hate. Or worse, that they work hard and sacrifice a ton right now and have gotten nowhere. In other words, they waste more time and money doing what they currently do than if they just bought our darn solution. Opposite ease. To get things we want, we know we have to change something, but we then assume we have to do stuff we hate and give up stuff we love. And ease comes from a lack of needed work or skill. A good ad disproves the assumption. It tells and shows how you can avoid the stuff you hate doing, do more of the stuff you love doing without working hard or having a lot of skill, and still get the dream outcome. Those are the eight key elements. Now we fully understand the what, how we deliver the four value elements and how we avoid their four opposites. We now go to the next W. The who. Who humans are primarily status driven and the status of one human comes from how the other humans treat them. So if your product or service changes how other people treat your customer, which it does in some way, it pays to show how. And talking about the value elements from someone else's perspective shows all the ways it'll improve the status of your customer. So we want to outline two groups of people. The first group is the people gaining status, your customers. The second group is the people giving it to them. Spouse, kids, parents, extended family, colleagues, bosses, friends, rivals, competitors, etc. All of these perspectives give us different opportunities to show how the prospect's status may improve. And they give us a ton of bonus benefits. As in, if you lose weight, do your kids have a new role model? Does your spouse now decide to get healthy, too? Are you more likely to get promoted at work? Science says yes. Does your friendmy no longer make those little jabs at dinner? Let's do business examples. If I said something was risk-free, I want to spell out how their spouse won't nag them about the purchase since there's no risk. I talk about how their kids would notice they weren't as stressed or distracted anymore about work. How their competitors notice their phones don't ring as much because all their customers are flowing to your new customer. How their business owner buddies say business must be good when they pull up in their new car at the golf ranch. You get the idea. These are all added benefits to the prospect. we'd miss out on if we only looked at it from their own perspective. And we can apply each new who perspective to each value driver. This is how you get so many different stories, examples, angles, etc. to describe the benefits more carrot and less stick. That leads me to the third lens of the what who win framework, the when. When people often only think of how their decisions affect the here and now. But if you want to be extra compelling, and we do, we should also explain what their decisions led to in the past and what their decisions could lead to in the future. We do this by getting them to visualize through their own timeline, past, present, future. This way, we help them to see the consequences of their decision or indecision right now. Let's use the weight loss example from earlier from their perspective. We'd show them getting teased as a kid, past, struggling to button their favorite pair of jeans, present, or moving up yet another belt loop, future. What does that nightmare look like to their spouse, to their rivals? How embarrassing. Remember, we can also run the same timeline through someone else's perspective. Their kid asking why other kids make fun of them because they passed on bad food habits. Past or how their kids complain now that the other kids' dads participate a practice when they don't. Present or how their doctor said they might not walk their daughter down the aisle at her wedding future. Note, this is all the bad stuff they want to avoid. Our next copy elements would contrast those with the good stuff that could happen, present and future, if they buy our thing. We use both towards good stuff and away from bad stuff. Then combine it with the past, present, and future of the prospect's life to create powerful motivators in our copy. Putting the what, the who, and the when together, we answer why they should be interested. If I continued on with the weight loss thing, I might talk about how their spouse who will perceive how fast what they fit into that suit your wife loves that didn't fit but does now in the future when or how their kids who month after month when got more interested in eating healthy and tagging along during workouts. What? Or how they who catch a look at themselves in a reflection in the mall in a few months when and realize stuff actually fits me in this store. What? Pro tip. Make your ads as specific as you can, but no more specific. The more specific your copy, the more efficient it can get, but also the longer it tends to get. And if it gets too long for the platform, it lowers efficiency. So, make the ad in its entirety as specific as you can in the most efficient space you've got. If you got audio and visuals at your disposal, then use contrast, likeness, and the scene itself to match your copy. It becomes more specific without getting any longer. And this makes your ad even more efficient and profitable. When we combine everything we can to get the prospect going toward the four value drivers while also getting them away from their opposites, the many perspectives we can show them gaining status and different timelines for each. This adds up to why they should be interested. And now we have a lot of ways to get them interested. And the more angles we cover, the more interested they'll become. Also, since you asked, the only difference between long ads and short ads is how many angles we have time to cover from the copyrightiting framework. Longer ads use more. Shorter ads use fewer. So add or take away based on the platform, but keep the call outs, the first few seconds, and CTAs, what to do next, the same. Pro tip: Get unlimited inspiration. Many platforms have a database of ads past and present. As of this moment, if you search platform ad library in a search engine, in a few clicks, you will find them. If you see an ad that runs for a long time, a month or more, assume it's profitable. Then, take notes on the callouts they use, how they illustrate the value elements, and their CTAs. Look for the words they use and how they demonstrate them. Break down 50 or so ads and you'll have a massive head start to creating winners of your own. Action steps. Get as many advertising angles with your offer as you can with the Watt who win framework. What? Know the eight key things about your own product or service. How it fulfills each element of value and how it helps avoid their opposites. Who show how the eight key things about your product or service can change your prospect status. Then show how the people they know give status to the prospect when they buy your thing or take status away if they don't. When get the prospect to see the consequences of buying and not buying through their past, present and future, especially through their change in status with people they know. This way we help them to see the value of their decision or indecision at this very moment. Author note, you don't need to become a copyrightiting expert. I'm certainly not. And if I thought copy was the limiter for most, I'd have spent more time on it. Sure, worldclass entrepreneurs have copywriting skills, but worldclass copywriters don't necessarily have entrepreneurial skills. Don't sacrifice one for the other. If you explain your offer clearly using the what, who win framework, you'll have enough skill to remove copywriting as a limiter on your growth. And that's all you have to do. Get good enough to grow. After all, if you call out the right people and have an amazing offer, you barely need any copy to begin with. You just got to explain your offer, get good enough to make your ads profitable, then scale, and see what breaks next. I also include a few more ad tips and tricks that have served me well in the lessons at the end of the chapter. But even if you never use them, there's only one more thing you'll need to turn these interested folks into engaged leads. Three, CTA. Tell them what to do next. If your ad got them interested, then your audience will have huge motivation for a tiny time. Take advantage. Tell them exactly what to do next. Spell it out. Click this button. Call this number. Reply with yes. Go to this website. Scan this QR code. Wink. So many ads still don't do this. Your audience can only know what to do if you tell them. Make CTAs quick and easy. Easy phone numbers, obvious buttons, simple websites. For example, a common CTA is to direct the audience to a website. So, make your web address short and memorable. Instead of alexprivate equityfirm.com/free-book-course2782, use acquisition.com/training. Note, this comes from a guy who spent $370,000 on a single word domain,acquisition.com. So, I may overvalue easy domains, but I don't think I do. I think everyone else undervalues them. Just my two cents. Beyond these basics, which most still forget, you can also use all the tactics like urgency, scarcity, and bonuses from step seven from the engage your leads chapter to make even stronger CTAs. They apply here and everywhere else you tell your audience to do something. So, we can now pick a platform to advertise on, target who we show our ads to, make the ads they see, and tell them what to do next. All we have to do now is get their contact information. Step number four, how do I get their info? Get permission to contact them. After they take the action, get their contact information. My favorite way to get contact information is a simple landing page. Don't overthink it. The simple your landing page, the easier it is to test. Focus on the words and the image. Here are my three favorite templates. Pick one and start testing. And make your landing pages match your ads. People click an ad because you promised them some benefit. So carry that same look and language over to your landing page. Make sure what you promised in your ad is what you deliver. This sounds simple, but a lot of people forget and waste money until they remember it. You don't want to end up with some Frankenstein experience where everything looks different. You want a continuous experience from click to close. Get more people through more steps. In Robert Seelini's seminal work influence, he shows that people like to think of themselves as consistent. So if you remind them of the action they just took, CTA, and show how taking the next action aligns with it. You'll get more people to take the second action, contact info. For example, now that you just did A, you need to do B to get the most of A. or doing a makes you a doing a kind of person. Doing a kind of people will do be. To be clear, we aren't selling anything. We are asking if they're interested in the stuff we sell. And if they're interested, they'll give us a way to tell them more about it. And when they do, they become engaged leads. Woo! Action step. Build your first landing page. I wasted 4 years feeling too scared to make a landing page. When I finally tried, I finished before lunch. Nowadays, there are tons of drag and drop tools to build websites in minutes. And if you're still worried about it, freelancers will build a site probably using those same drag and drop tools on the cheap. So, just get it done. Now, you have engaged leads from paid ads. Hooray! We did it. Run paid ads part one conclusion. 