# Part 7 of 20

e decides. Rewarding your audience means matching or exceeding their expectations when they decide to consume your content. Here's how you know if you succeeded, your audience grows. If it's not growing, your stuff isn't that good. Practice and you'll get better. Action step. Provide more value than anyone else. Make it on your promises. Clearly satisfy the hook you use to get their attention. In other words, completely answer the unresolved questions you embedded in their minds. So, what's the difference between short and long form content? Answer: not much. If you recall from earlier, the smallest amount of material it takes to hook, retain, and reward attention is a content unit. So to create a longer piece of content, we simply link content units together. For example, a single step in a five-step list might be a content unit. When we link all five together, we have a longer piece of content. Here's a visual to drive it home. Shorter content hooks retains rewards fewer times. Longer content does it more times. And doing it more times takes more skill because you have to string more good content units in a row. For example, a new comedian typically will only get a few minutes on stage to perform their bit. Only a master comic gets an hour. It takes practice to reward attention, just often enough to keep it for that long. So, start small, then build from there. Even if you start with longer content, which is fine, I suggest starting with shorter versions. You'll have an easier go of it. Many successful authors with epic length novels started by writing, you guessed it, short stories. Pro tip, make all your content for strangers. This is important. Pay attention. If you want to grow your warm audience, then you need to make content assuming the people consuming it have never heard of you before. If you make it for strangers, then strangers will like it because you made it for them and they'll share it and your audience will grow that much faster. And consider the alternative. You litter your content with inside jokes that no one gets besides your audience. Cool for you guys, but no one else will feel welcome and your audience growth will slow down. This is one of the most common mistakes I see content creators make. So, don't make it. So, make every piece of content assuming the person has never heard of you before and everyone who already knows you won't mind. They'll appreciate the reminders. Once you understand how to make a content unit, all you have to do is more. Then, your audience will grow. And once your audience grows big enough, you may want to monetize it. I had too much to say to fit into one chapter. So, we'll talk about how to monetize the audience in the next one. See you there. Number two, post free content part two. Monetize your audience. Give, give, give, give, give, give until they ask. Pro tip, give in public, ask in private. If you continue to give in public, people will ask you privately to sell them stuff. Bank on it. The best of both worlds is to never stop giving in public and get an increasing number of people asking you privately to buy your stuff. Give, give, give and you will get without losing goodwill or slowing your audience growth. The point of this chapter is to show you how to monetize your warm audience. First, we talk about how we can make offers and not be a spam monster, mastering the give ask ratio. Then we'll talk about the two offer strategies to monetize the audience. After that, I'll talk about how to scale your output so you can grow a bigger audience faster and make even more money. Then, I'll share a bunch of lessons I've learned in building my own audience that I wish I had known sooner. Finally, I'll wrap this up with how you can take action on everything today. Mastering the give ask ratio. Gary Vaynerchuk popularized jab, jab, jab, right hook. It simplifies the idea of giving to your audience many times before making an ask. You deposit goodwill with rewarding content, then withdraw from it by making offers. When you deposit goodwill, your audience pays more attention. When you deposit goodwill, your audience is more likely to do what you ask. So, I try to underass my audience and build as much goodwill as possible. Thankfully, the give ask ratio has been well studied. Television averages 13 minutes of advertising per 60 minutes of air time. That means 47 minutes are dedicated to giving and 13 minutes are dedicated to asking. That's roughly a 3.5 to1 ratio of giving to asking. On Facebook, it's roughly four content posts for every one ad on the news feed. This gives us an idea of the minimum give ask ratio we can sustain. After all, television and Facebook are mature platforms. They care less about growing their audiences and care more about making money from them. So they give less and ask more. Which means give, give, give, ask is the ratio that gets us closer to maximally monetizing an audience without shrinking it. But most of us want to grow. So we shouldn't model them. We should model growing platforms. So what do growing platforms do? They display lots of content without many advertisements at all. In short, they give give give. Maybe ask. they dramatically overgive and underask. Why? Because the more you reward your audience, the bigger it gets. So, if you want to grow an audience, give far far more than you ask. And now that I have some experience with it, I've got a slight tweak on the traditional give strategy that puts it on steroids. Give until they ask. People are always waiting for you to ask for money. And when you don't, they trust you more. They share your stuff more. You grow faster, etc. But I'm not some altruistic saint. I'm here to make money. After all, I wouldn't be a good businessman if I weren't making any. So, it's simple. If you give enough, people start asking you. It makes people uncomfortable to continue to receive without giving back. It is core to our culture and DNA. They'll go to your website, DM you, email you, etc. to ask for more. Not only that, when you use this strategy, you get the best customers. They're the ones who are the biggest givers. They're the ones who, even as paying customers, still feel they get the better end of the deal. And best of all, if you advertise this way, your growth never slows. When you use this strategy, you give in public, ask in private. You let the audience self- select when they're ready to give you money. That's why, in my opinion, give until they ask is the best strategy. But if you feel like asking, I get it. So, let's talk about how to ask. If you're going to do it, you might as well do it well. Bottom line, the moment you start asking for money is the moment you decide to slow down your growth. So, the more patient you are, the more you will get when you finally make your ask. Action step, give, give, give, give, give, give until they ask. How to make money from content. Ask. To be clear, I think you should use the give until they ask strategy. But if you need to pay rent, feed your family, etc. I get it. Sometimes you got to ask. So, let's talk about how to do that without sounding like a ninkham poop. Think of asks as commercials. You interrupt this program with a very important message. Since you're the one providing the value, you interrupt your own content with commercials about the stuff you sell. But since it's your audience, you pay the cost of potential loss of trust, slowing growth, and of course, the time it took you to gather the audience in the first place. But moneywise, it's free. Now, I use two strategies to weave promotions into content. Integrated offers and intermittent offers. Let's cover both. Integrated. You can advertise in every piece of content. So long as you keep your give ask ratio high, you will continue to grow your warm audience and get engaged leads. Win-win. For example, if I make an hourong podcast, having 3x3 second ads means I'd have 58.5 minutes of giving to 1.5 minutes of asking. Well above the 3:1 ratio. On the flip side, I had a friend who had a podcast that blew up quickly. Eager to monetize his new audience, he started making offers, asking too frequently in the content. His podcast not only stopped growing, it actually shrank. Don't be like that. Don't kill your golden goose. It's a balancing act. Overg to protect your most valuable asset, the goodwill of your audience. Action step. I most commonly integrate the asks, aka CTAs, after a valuable moment or the end of the content piece. Consider trying one of those places first and make sure your audience growth doesn't slow, then add in the second and so forth. Pro tip: PS statement asks. The PS statement is one of the most read parts of any content often because it summarizes the main thing the author wants the audience to do. So, I try to include them in everything I write. It's also one of my favorite places to put make asks. PSC, everyone reads these intermittent. Second way you can monetize is through intermittent asks. Here's how it works. You make many pieces of content of pure gives. Then occasionally you make an ask piece. Example, you make 10 give posts and on the 11th you promote your stuff. The difference between the first way and the second way depends on the platform. On short platforms, the intermittent way will dominate. On long- form platforms, integrations are often your best bet. When you make your ask, you either advertise your core offer or you advertise your lead magnet. That's it. Don't over complicate this lead magnet example. If I just talked about a way to get more leads on a post/v video/mpodcast/ etc. I would then say I have 11 more tips that have helped me do this. Go to my site to grab a pretty visual of them. And as long as I have an audience that wants to get more leads, this will get some of them to engage. Then the thank you page after the opt-in page for my lead magnet would display my paid offer with some video explaining how it works. Bonus points if your lead magnet is relevant to your content advertising it offer example. You can also go for the jugular with your core offer and go straight for the sale. The direct path to money. We model our offer from the last chapter. I'm looking for five specific avatar to help achieve dream outcome in time delay. The best part is you don't have to effort and sacrifice and if you don't get dream outcome I will do two things increase perceived likelihood of achievement one I will hand you your money back too I will work with you until you do I do this because I want everyone to have an amazing experience with us and because I'm confident I could deliver on my promise if that sounds fair DM me/book a call/ comment below/rely to this email slash etc After you make your ask, get back to providing value. Pro tip: $100 million offers. My first book, $100 million offers, breaks down the offer creation process step by step. If you want to know how to create a valuable offer that the right person would feel stupid saying no to go check out that book, the Kindle version is sold as cheap as the platform will allow me to sell it if you're strapped for cash. if it helps you feel more comfortable. More than 10,000 people left it a five-star review in the first 15 months since it was published and it has sat at top the number one bestseller in marketing, advertising, sales list for 100 plus weeks in counting. If you don't know what to sell, read that book to get it right the first time. This box is an example of integration. Action step one, pick whether you integrate it or make an intermittent ask. Then pick whether you'll advertise your core offer or lead magnet. If you're not sure, do the lead magnet. It's lower risk. How to scale it? After you start asking, you're going to start getting leads and making money. But you don't want to stop there, do you? Didn't think so. Cool. So, let's talk about scale. There are two opposing strategies to scale your warm audience. They both follow progressive steps. First, you have the depth and width approach. Then you have the width and depth approach. Both are right. Here's how they work. Depth then width. Maximize a platform then move on to the next platform. Step number one, post content on a relevant platform. Step number two, post content regularly on that platform. Step number three, maximize quality and quantity of the content on that platform. Short form, you may sometimes be able to get up to 10 times per day per platform. Long form, you may have to get up to 5 days per week. See soap operas. Step number four, add another platform while maintaining the quality and quantity on the first platform. Step number five, repeat steps one to four until all relevant platforms are maximized. Advantages. Once you figure out one platform, you maximize your return on that effort. Audiences compound faster the more you do. You take advantage of this compounding. Fewer resources are required to make this work. Disadvantages, you have less lowhanging fruit of new platforms and new audiences. You don't accomplish the feeling of omnipresence. In the beginning, you risk your business being reliant on a single channel. This is a risk because platforms change all the time and sometimes ban you for no reason. If you only have one way to get customers, it can kill your business if it gets shut down. within depth. Get on every platform early, then maximize them together. Step number one, post content on a relevant platform. Step number two, post content regularly on that platform. Step number three, here's where this strategy differs from the one before. Instead of maximizing your first platform, move on to the next relevant platform while maintaining the previous. Step number four, continue until you're on all relevant platforms. Step number five, now maximize your content creation on all platforms at once. Advantages: You reach a broader audience faster and you can repurpose your content. So with a little extra work, you can capture tons of efficiency with minimal changes to the format. You can make the same content fit multiple platforms. For example, it takes little extra effort to format a single short video across all platforms distributing short video content. Disadvantages, it costs more labor, attention, and time to do this well. Often times, people end up with lots of bad content everywhere. Sucky fluff. No bueno. If you already have a sizable business, scale up faster and reap the rewards of an asset that only gets better with time. I said it before and I'll say it again. The best day to start posting content was the day you were born. The second best day is today. Don't wait like I did. Pro tip, how I get it done. I'm not a full-time content creator. I run businesses, but content creation is a part of my responsibility. Here's my simple process for recording. I find topics using the five ways from the topic section in part one of this chapter. This takes me about an hour. I sit down twice every month and record 30 or so short clips based on step one. On the same day, I record two to four longer videos unpacking tweets that had more stories or relevant examples. This creates my longer form content. If this sounds simplistic, it's because it is. Just start. You can add volume over time. Action step, pick an approach, start posting, then go up the scaling steps over time. Pro tip, only one call to action at a time. A confused mind doesn't buy is a common saying in the sales and marketing world. To increase how many people do what you want, only ask them to do one thing per call to action. For example, don't ask people to share, like, subscribe, and comment at the same time. Because instead of doing them all, they'll do none. Instead, if you want them to share, only ask them to share. And if you want them to buy, only ask them to buy. Make up your mind so they don't have to. Why you should make content, even if it's not your primary advertising strategy. January 2020, I called all the major departments to a meeting to answer an important question. Why isn't our paid advertising working like it used to? Opinions flooded the room. The creative, the copy, the offer, our pages, our sales process, our price, they shot back and forth at each other. every bit as invested as I was in solving the problem. Ila and I sat quietly as the team debated. After the den died down, Ila in her wise fashion asked a different question. What do we stop doing in the months before the decline? A new debate arose and a unanimous answer surfaced. Alex stopped making gym content and started talking about general business. Now, I didn't know how important that was, but I had to find out. So, I sent a survey to our gym owners. I asked if they had consumed any content of mine before they booked a call. The results astounded me. 78% of all clients had consumed at least two long form pieces of content prior to booking a call. I had fallen in my old ways and given paid ads all the credit. But our free content was nurturing the demand. Don't make the same mistake I did. Your free content gives strangers an opportunity to find, get value from, and share your stuff. And it warms people on the fence that go to and come from the cold audience methods we dive into next. So, even if it's hard to measure, free content gets you better returns on all advertising methods. Bottom line, start making content relevant to your audience. It will make you more money. Seven lessons I've learned from making content. One, switch from how to to how I. From this is the best way to these are my favorite ways, etc. Especially when starting out. Talk about what you've done, not what others should do. What you like, not this is the best. When you talk about experience, no one can question you. This makes you bulletproof. A, I make my oatmeal this way versus you should make your oatmeal this way. B, how I built my sevenf figureure agency versus how to build a sevenf figureure agency. See, my favorite way to generate leads for my business versus this is the best way to generate leads for your business. It's subtle, but when you tell your experience, you are sharing value. When you tell a stranger what to do, it's hard to avoid coming off preachy or arrogant. This helps avoid it. Two, we need to be reminded more than we need to be taught. You're a silly goose if you think 100% of your audience listens 100% of the time. For example, I post about my book every single day. I surveyed my audience and asked them if they knew I had a book. One in five that saw the post said they didn't know. Keep repeating yourself. You'll get bored of your content before your whole audience even sees it. Three, puddles, ponds, lakes, oceans. Narrow the focus of your content. If you have a small local business, you probably shouldn't make general business content. Not at first, at least. Why? The audience will listen to people with better track records than you, but you can narrow your topics to what you do and the place you do it. Example, plumbing in a certain town. If you do that, you can become king of that puddle. Over time, you can expand your plumbing puddle to the general local business pond, then the lake of brick and mortar chains, and so forth. Then eventually the ocean of general business. Four, content creates tools for salespeople. Some content will perform well and get more people interested in buying your stuff. That content helps your sales team. Create a master list of your greatest hits. Label each hit with the problem it solves and the benefit it provides. Then your sales team can send it before or after sales calls and help people decide to buy. They work especially well if the content resolves specific concerns prospects commonly face. Five, free content retains paying customers. How a customer gets value from you matters less than where they got 