# Part 3 of 20

u go straight for the sale, the direct path to money. Advertising your core offer might be all you need to get leads to engage. Try this way first. Sometimes though, people want to know more about your offer before they buy. This is common for businesses that sell more expensive stuff. If that's you, then you'll often get more leads to engage by advertising with a lead magnet first. A lead magnet is a complete solution to a narrow problem. It's typically a lowerc cost or free offer to see who is interested in your stuff. And once solved, it reveals another problem solved by your core offer. This is important because leads interested in lowerc cost or free offers now are more likely to buy a related higher cost offer later. Think of it like salty pretzels at a bar. If somebody eats the pretzels, they'll get thirsty and order a drink. The salty pretzels solve the narrow problem of hunger. They also reveal a thirst problem solved by a drink which they can get in exchange for money. The pretzels have a cost, but when done right, the drink revenue covers the cost of the pretzels and nets a profit. So, your lead magnet should be valuable enough on its own that you could charge for it. And after they get it, they should want more of what you offer. This gets them one step closer to buying your stuff. A person who pays with their time now is more likely to pay with their money later. Good lead magnets get more engaged leads and customers than a core offer alone and do it for less money. So, let's make a lead magnet, shall we? Pro tip: Even free stuff has a cost. People will give you time before they'll give you money, but time is still a cost. If your lead magnet isn't worth their time, it's overpriced. And free or not, they won't buy from you again. So, look at it this way. If they think your lead magnet is worth their time, they'll think your core offer is worth their money. Seven steps to creating an effective lead magnet. Step one, figure out the problem you want to solve and who to solve it for. Step two, figure out how to solve it. Step three, figure out how to deliver it. Step four, test what to name it. Step five, make it easy to consume. Step six, make it darn good. Step seven, make it easy for them to tell you they want more. Something to keep in mind before we start, Grand Slam offers work for free stuff as much or better than they do for paid stuff. So make your lead magnet so insanely good people will feel stupid saying no. And yes, this means you may have a few insanely valuable offers, even if some are free. But that a good thing. The business that provides the most value wins. Period. So let's get started. Step one, figure out the problem you want to solve and who to solve it for. Here's a simple example we can walk through together. This book is a lead magnet. You are a lead. I want to solve an engaged lead problem. And I want to solve it for businesses making less than $1 million in annual profit. With enough engaged leads, they can make more than $1 million plus in annual profit. Then they qualify for my core offer. Me investing in their company to help them scale. The first step is picking the problem to solve. I use a simple model to figure this out. I call it the problem solution cycle. You can see it below. Every problem has a solution. Every solution reveals more problems. This is the never- ending cycle of business and life. And smaller problem solution cycles sit inside larger problem solution cycles. So, how do we pick the right problem to solve? We start by picking a problem that's narrow and meaningful, then solve it. And like we just learned, when we solve one problem, a new problem reveals itself. Here comes the important part. If we can solve that new problem with our core offer, we've got a winner. This is because we solve this new problem in exchange for money. That's it. Don't overthink it. Example, imagine we help homeowners sell their homes. That is a broad solution. But what about the steps before selling a home? Owners want to know what their house is worth. They want to know how to increase its value. They need pictures. They need it cleaned. They need landscaping. They need minor things fixed. They need moving services. They may need staging, etc. These are all narrow problems. Great for lead magnets. We pick one of the narrow problems and solve it for free. And although it helps, it makes their other problem more obvious. They still have to sell their home, but now we've earned their trust. So, we can charge to solve the remaining problems with our core offer and help them achieve their broader goal. Action step. Pick the narrowly defined problem you want to solve. Then make sure your core offer can solve the next problem that comes up. Step two, figure out how to solve it. There are three types of lead magnets and each offers a different type of solution. First, if your audience has a problem they don't know about, your lead magnet would make them aware of it. Second, you could solve a recurring problem for a short amount of time with a sample or trial of your core offer. Third, you can give them one step in a multi-step process that solves a bigger problem. All three solve one problem and reveal others. So, your three types are one, reveal problems, two samples and trials, and three one step of a multi-step process. One, reveal their problem. Think diagnosis. These lead magnets work great when they reveal problems that get worse the longer you wait. Example, you run a speed test that shows their website loads at 30% below the speed it should. You draw a clear line between where they should be and how much money they lose by being below standards. Example, you do a posture analysis and show them what their posture should look like. You draw a clear line to what their pain-free life would look like if their posture were fixed and how you can help. Example, you do a termite inspection that reveals what happens when the bugs eat their home. If they do have termites, you can get rid of them for cheaper than the cost of another home. If they don't, they can pay you to prevent the termites from coming to begin with. You can sell them either way. Win-win. Two samples and trials. You give full but brief access to your core offer. You can limit the number of uses, time they have access, or both. This works great when your core offer is a recurring solution to a recurring problem. Example, you hook them up to your faster server and show their website loading at lightning speed. They get more customers from your faster load times. If they want to keep it, they need to keep paying you. Example, you give a free adjustment for their bad posture and they experience relief. To get permanent benefits, they must buy more. Example, food, cosmetics, medicine, or any other consumables. Consumables by nature have limited uses and solve recurring problems with recurring use. So single serving, fun-sized, etc. Samples are great lead magnets. It's how Costco sells more food than other stores. They give out samples. Pro tip: Be a drug dealer. Many people make money selling drugs legally and illegally. A free drug sample is a lead magnet. They can afford to give a hit away because once people try it, they're hooked. It's so good they come back for more. This is why we don't dilute the value of our lead magnets or give away sucky fluff. If anything, like a drug dealer, you'd want to give the strongest hit first. It keeps them coming back for more. Your lead magnet is your first hit. The next one they have to pay for. Be a legal drug dealer and you'll make money like one. P.S. Whatever you do, make sure it's legal. Three, one step of a multi-step process. When your core offer has steps, you can give one valuable step for free and the rest when they buy. This works great when your core offer solves a more complex problem. Example, this book. I help you get to $1 million plus per year in profit. Then you'll have new problems we can help you solve and scale from there. Example, you give away a freewood sealant for a garage door, but the sealing process requires three different coats to protect from all weather conditions. I do the first one free, explain how it only gives partial coverage and offer the other two in a bundle. Example, you give away free finance courses, guides, calculators, templates, etc. They are so valuable people really can do it all themselves. But they also reveal the time, effort and sacrifice of doing all. So you offer financial services to solve all that. Action step. Pick how you want to solve your narrowly defined problem. Author note. What we can learn for dressing rooms. Try before you buy. Years ago, you weren't allowed to try things on before you bought them. Then one savvy business owner created a fitting room. Their sales presumably skyrocketed. So much so that it's now a standard practice in all clothes stores. Here's why the dressing room is so powerful. It is all three types of lead magnet in one. You get to try something on like a trial. It also reveals a problem as once you try one thing on, you might find that you need something different than you intended. And once you find a shirt you like, a good salesperson would say, "Do you want pants to go with it?" It becomes step one on a multi-step process of creating an outfit. So, if you can try get a lead magnet that does all three. Reveal a problem, give them a taste of a solution, and show it as a small piece of a total package. Step three, figure out how to deliver it. There are unlimited ways to solve problems. But my favorite lead magnets solve them with software, information, services, and physical products. And each of those works great with the three types of lead magnets from step two. I'll show you what I've done to attract gym owners using each lead magnet type. One, software. You give them a tool. If you have a spreadsheet, calculator, or small software, your technology does a job for them. X, I give away a spreadsheet or dashboard that gives a gym owner all their relevant business stats, compares them to industry averages, then gives them a rank. Two, information. You teach them something. courses, lessons, interviews with experts, keynote presentations, live events, mistakes and pitfalls, hacks/tips, etc. Anything they can learn from X. I give away a mini course for gyms on how to write an ad. Three services. You do work for free, adjust their back, perform a website audit, apply the first layer of garage sealant, transform their video into an ebook, etc. X. I run gym owners ads for free for 30 days. For physical products, you give them something they can hold in their hands. A posture assessment chart, a supplement, a small bottle of garage door sealant, boxing gloves to get boxing gym leads, etc. X, I sell a book for gym owners called Gym Launch Secrets with three different types of lead magnets and four ways to deliver them. That's up to 12 lead magnets that solve a single narrow problem. So many magnets, so little time. I make as many versions of a lead magnet as I can and rotate them. This keeps the advertising fresh and low effort. Plus, you see which ones work best. Like my case study story at the beginning of the chapter, the results are often surprising, and you won't know until you try. Action step. As a thought exercise, think of a lead magnet and then a version of it for each delivery method. You always can, I promise. Then pick how to deliver your lead magnet. Step four, test what to name it. David Oglevie said, "When you have written your headline, you have spent 80 cents of your advertising dollar." What that means is five times more people read your headline than any other part of your promotion. They read it and make a snap decision to read further or not. Like Oelv hints, leads have to notice your lead magnet before they can consume it. like it or not. This means how we present it matters more than anything. For example, improving the headline, name, and display of your lead magnet can 2x, 3x, or 10x your engagement. It's that important. Besides, if no one shows interest in your lead magnet, no one will ever know how good it is. You can't leave it to chance. So, listen up. Here's what you do next. You test. The three things you want to test are the headline, the images, and the sub headline in that order. The headline is the most important. So if you only test one thing, test that. For example, I had no idea what to title this book. So here's what I did to figure out which name would do the best. I tested. The results may surprise you as much as they surprised me. Headline tests. Round one, advertising versus promotion. Round two, advertising versus leads. Round three, marketing versus leads. Image test. Real versus cartoon. Sub headlines. Round one, how to get more people to want to buy your stuff. How to get strangers to want to buy your stuff. Round two. How to get more strangers to want to buy your stuff. How to get strangers to want to buy your stuff. Round three, how to get as many leads as you darn well please. How to get strangers to want to buy your stuff. Round four. Get strangers to want to buy your stuff. How to get strangers to want to buy your stuff. Note two things with the sub headline tests. One, how to get strangers to want to buy your stuff overwhelmingly beat get strangers to want to buy your stuff. The only difference is two little words, how to, and it also beat how to get more strangers to want to buy your stuff with a single word, remove more. Small changes can make big differences. Two, since so many people asked, I figured I'd answer it here. I didn't subtitle the book, How to Get Strangers to Buy Your Stuff, because that's sales, not getting leads. The point of this book is to get strangers to show interest not to buy yet. A raised hand is where this book ends. Dollar 100M sales or persuasion. I haven't decided yet. Will be a future book. One problem at a time. Action step test. If people engage in droves, you've got a winner. And if you have any following at all, you can run polls like these. You don't need a lot of votes to get a directional idea. If you can't do that, make a post on every platform and ask people to respond with a one or a two. Then count them up. If you still can't even do that, then just message people and ask. There's always a way. And this is one of the highest leverage things you can do with your time. Make sure how you package it gets engagement and you give yourself a big head start. Bonus points. If people respond to the poll and ask when they can get their hands on it, you have a mega winner. Step five, make it easy for them to consume. People prefer to do things that take less effort. So, if we want more people to take us up on our lead magnet and consume it, we got to make it easy. You can see 2x, 3x, and even 4x plus increases and take rates and consumption simply by making it easier to consume. One, software. You want to make it accessible on their phones, on a computer, and in multiple different formats. This way, they'll pick the one easiest for them. Two, information. People like to consume things in different ways. Some people like watching, other people like reading, others like listening, etc. Make your solution in as many different formats as you can. Images, video, text, audio, etc. Offer them all. That's why this book comes in every format people consume. Three services be available at more times and more ways. More times a day, more days of the week via video call, phone call, in person, etc. The easier you are to get a hold of, the more likely people will become engaged leads to claim the free value. For physical products, make it super simple to order and fast to get to them. Make the product itself fast and easy to open. Give simple directions on how to use the product. Example, Apple made its products so well they didn't even need directions. And the packaging is so good most people keep the boxes. Action step. Package your lead magnet in every way you can. It dramatically increases how many engaged leads come your way. And more leads engaging with your lead magnet means more leads getting value from it. This is huge. Fun fact, my book $100 million offers has a near perfect one quarter one quarter split between ebooks, physical books, audiobooks, and videos free on acquisition.com. Making the book available in multiple formats is the easiest way I know to get two, three, fourx the amount of leads for the same work. If I only made it available in one format, I'd miss out on the three 4x the people who wouldn't have read the book otherwise. What a shame that would have been and what a waste. Step six, make it darn good. Give away the secrets. Sell the implementation. The marketplace judges everything you have to offer, free or not. And you can never provide too much value. But you can provide too little. So you want your lead magnet to provide so much value people feel obligated to pay you. The goal is to provide more value than the cost of your core offer before they bought it. Think about it this way. If you're scared of giving away your secrets, imagine the alternative. You give away sucky fluff. Then people who might have become customers think this person sucks. They only have sucky fluff. Then they buy from someone else. So sad. Not only that, they tell other folks who might have bought from you not to. It's a vicious cycle you don't want to ride. But remember, people buy stuff based on how much value they think they'll get after they buy it. And the easiest way to get them to think they'll get tons of value after they buy is, drum roll please, to provide them with value before they buy. Imagine a company scaled from $1 million to $10 million just by consuming my free content. The chance they'll partner with Acquisition.com is huge because I paid for my share before we even started. Action step. 99% of people aren't going to buy, but they will create or destroy your reputation based on the value of your free stuff. So, make your lead magnets as good as your paid stuff. Your reputation depends on it. Provide value. Stack the deck. Reap the rewards. Step seven, make it easy for them to tell you they want more. Once the leads consume the lead magnet, some of them will be ready to buy or learn more about your offer. This is the time to give a call to action. A call to action CTA tells the audience what to do next. But there's a little more to it than that. At least if you want your advertising to work. Good CTAs have two things. One, what to do and two, reasons to do it right now. What to do. CTAs tell the audience to call the number, click the button, give information, book the call, etc. There are way too many to list. Just know CTAs tell the audience how to become engaged leads. Good CTAs have clear, simple, and direct language. Not don't delay, but instead call now. Read the next paragraph to learn more. See what I did there? Reasons to do it right now. If you give people a reason to take action, more people will do it. But couple things to keep in mind. First, good reasons work better than bad reasons. And second, any reason, even bad ones, tends to work better than no reason at all. So to get more people to take action, I include as many effective reasons as I can. Here are my favorite reasons to act now. A scarcity. Scarcity is when there is a limited amount of something, especially when there is a small supply compared to demand. When something is scarce, like your lead magnet or offer, people also tend to want it more. And this is why they're more likely to act right now. The fewer you have, the more valuable people think it is. But there's a catch. The fewer you have, the fewer engaged leads you can get before running out. So, the best strategy one know for scarcity is reality. Let me explain